.
38
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in millions, except per share data)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
39
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (in millions)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
40
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1--DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Description of Business Amazon.com opened its virtual doors on the World Wide Web in July 1995 and offers Earth's Biggest Selection. We seek to be Earth's most customer-centric company for three primary customer sets:
consumers, sellers, and enterprises. We serve consumers through our retail websites and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We also manufacture and sell the Kindle e-reader. We offer programs that enable sellers to sell their products on our
websites and their own branded websites and to fulfill orders through us. We serve developers and enterprises of all sizes through Amazon Web Services ("AWS"), which provides access to technology infrastructure that enables virtually any
type of business. In addition, we generate revenue through other marketing and promotional services, such as online advertising, and co-branded credit card agreements. We have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. See "Note 10--Segment Information."
Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and those entities in which we have a variable interest and are the primary beneficiary.
Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited to, determining the selling price of
products and services in multiple element revenue arrangements and determining the lives of these elements, incentive discount offers, sales returns, vendor funding, stock-based compensation, income taxes, valuation of investments and inventory,
collectability of receivables, valuation of acquired intangibles and goodwill, depreciable lives of fixed assets and internally-developed software, and contingencies. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.
Earnings per Share Basic earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares. Diluted earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares including the
dilutive effect of stock awards as determined under the treasury stock method. The following table shows the calculation of
diluted shares (in millions):
41
Table of Contents
Cash and Cash Equivalents
We classify all highly liquid instruments with an original maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase as cash equivalents.
Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are accounted for using primarily the FIFO method, and are valued at the lower of cost or market value. This valuation requires us to make
judgments, based on currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category.
We provide fulfillment-related services in connection with certain of our sellers' programs. Third party sellers
maintain ownership of their inventory, regardless of whether fulfillment is provided by us or the third party sellers, and therefore these products are not included in our inventories.
Accounts Receivable, Net, and Other Included in "Accounts receivable, net, and other" on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to vendor and customer receivables. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, vendor
receivables, net, were $763 million and $495 million, and customer receivables, net, were $561 million and $341 million.
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We estimate losses on receivables based on known troubled accounts and historical experience of losses incurred. The allowance for doubtful customer and vendor receivables was $72 million and $72 million
at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Internal-use Software and Website Development
Costs incurred to develop software for internal use and our websites are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life of the
software. Costs related to design or maintenance of internal-use software and website development are expensed as incurred. For the years ended 2010, 2009, and 2008, we capitalized $213 million (including $38 million of stock-based
compensation), $187 million (including $35 million of stock-based compensation), and $187 million (including $27 million of stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization of previously
capitalized amounts was $184 million, $172 million, and $143 million for 2010, 2009, and 2008. Depreciation of Fixed
Assets Fixed assets include assets such as furniture and fixtures, heavy equipment, technology infrastructure,
internal-use software and website development. Depreciation is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets (generally two years for assets such as internal-use software, three years for our technology
infrastructure, five years for furniture and fixtures, and ten years for heavy equipment). Depreciation expense is classified within the corresponding operating expense categories on our consolidated statements of operations.
Leases and Asset Retirement Obligations We categorize leases at their inception as either operating or capital leases. On certain of our lease agreements, we may receive rent holidays and other incentives. We recognize lease costs on a
straight-line basis without regard to deferred payment terms, such as rent holidays that defer the commencement date of required payments. Additionally, incentives we receive are treated as a reduction of our costs over the term of the
42
Table of Contents
agreement. Leasehold improvements are capitalized at cost and amortized over the lesser of their expected useful life or the non-cancellable term of the lease.
We establish assets and liabilities for the estimated construction costs incurred under build-to-suit lease arrangements to the extent we
are involved in the construction of structural improvements or take construction risk prior to commencement of a lease. Upon occupancy of facilities under build-to-suit leases, we assess whether these arrangements qualify for sales recognition under
the sale-leaseback accounting guidance. If we continue to be the deemed owner, the facilities are accounted for as financing leases. We establish assets and liabilities for the present value of estimated future costs to retire long-lived assets at the termination or expiration of a lease. Such assets are depreciated over the lease
period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted to the future value of the estimated retirement costs.
Goodwill
We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the
carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value, a second step is
performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flows are
based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on estimated category expansion, pricing, market segment share and general economic conditions.
We conduct our annual impairment test as of October 1 of each year, and have determined there to be no impairment for any of the
periods presented. There were no events or circumstances from the date of our assessment through December 31, 2010 that would impact this conclusion. See "Note 4--Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets." Other Assets Included in "Other assets" on our consolidated
balance sheets are amounts primarily related to marketable securities restricted for longer than one year, the majority of which are attributable to collateralization of bank guarantees and debt related to our international operations; acquired
intangible assets, net of amortization; deferred costs; certain equity investments; and intellectual property rights, net of amortization. Investments We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short-
to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Such investments are included in "Cash and cash equivalents," or "Marketable securities" on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, classified
as available-for-sale, and reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in "Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)." Equity investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting if the investment gives us the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over an investee. The total of these
investments in equity-method investees, including identifiable intangible assets, deferred tax liabilities and goodwill, is classified on our consolidated balance sheets as "Other assets." Our share of the investees' earnings or
losses, amortization of the related intangible assets, and related gains or losses, if any, are classified as "Equity-method investment activity, net of tax" on our consolidated statements of operations.
Equity investments without readily determinable fair values for which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence are
accounted for using the cost method of accounting and classified as "Other assets" on
43
Table of Contents
our consolidated balance sheets. Under the cost method, investments are carried at cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines in fair value, certain distributions, and
additional investments. Equity investments that have readily determinable fair values are classified as available-for-sale
and included in "Marketable securities" in our consolidated balance sheet and are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss."
We periodically evaluate whether declines in fair values of our investments below their book value are other-than-temporary. This
evaluation consists of several qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the severity and duration of the unrealized loss as well as our ability and intent to hold the investment until a forecasted recovery occurs. Additionally, we assess
whether we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not we will be required to sell any investment before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Factors considered include quoted market prices; recent financial results and operating
trends; implied values from any recent transactions or offers of investee securities; credit quality of debt instrument issuers; other publicly available information that may affect the value of our investments; duration and severity of the decline
in value; and our strategy and intentions for holding the investment. Long-Lived Assets
Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is
used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. For long-lived assets used in operations, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset's carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We
measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when certain criteria are met, including when management has committed to a plan to sell the
asset, the asset is available for sale in its immediate condition, and the sale is probable within one year of the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported at the lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell. Assets held for sale were not
significant at December 31, 2010 or 2009. Accrued Expenses and Other
Included in "Accrued expenses and other" at December 31, 2010 and 2009 were liabilities of $503 million and $347 million
for unredeemed gift certificates. We reduce the liability for a gift certificate when it is applied to an order. If a gift certificate is not redeemed, we recognize revenue when it expires or, for a certificate without an expiration date, when the
likelihood of its redemption becomes remote, generally two years from the date of issuance. Unearned Revenue
Unearned revenue is recorded when payments are received in advance of performing our service obligations and is recognized
over the service period. Current unearned revenue is included in "Accrued expenses and other" and non-current unearned revenue is included in "Long-term liabilities" on our consolidated balance sheets. Current unearned revenue
was $461 million and $511 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Non-current unearned revenue was $34 million and $201 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Income Taxes Income tax expense includes U.S. and international income
taxes. Except as required under U.S. tax law, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of
the U.S. Undistributed
44
Table of Contents
earnings of foreign subsidiaries that are indefinitely invested outside of the U.S were $1.6 billion at December 31, 2010. Determination of the unrecognized deferred tax liability that would
be incurred if such amounts were repatriated is not practicable. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of
temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered.
Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe a portion will not
be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience and expectations of future taxable income and capital gains by taxing
jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. We allocate our valuation allowance to current and long-term deferred tax assets on a pro-rata basis.
We utilize a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions (tax contingencies). The first step is to evaluate
the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes. The second step
is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We consider many factors when evaluating and estimating our tax positions and tax benefits, which may require periodic
adjustments and which may not accurately forecast actual outcomes. We include interest and penalties related to our tax contingencies in income tax expense. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Fair value is defined as the price
that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. To increase the comparability of fair value measures, the following hierarchy prioritizes the
inputs to valuation methodologies used to measure fair value: Level 1--Valuations based on
quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets. Level 2--Valuations
based on observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, or
other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data.
Level 3--Valuations based on unobservable inputs reflecting our own assumptions, consistent with
reasonably available assumptions made by other market participants. These valuations require significant judgment. We measure
the fair value of money market funds and equity securities based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. All other financial instruments were valued based on quoted market prices of similar instruments and other
significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data. Revenue
We recognize revenue from product sales or services rendered when the following four criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an
arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units and
revenue is allocated using estimated selling prices if we do not have vendor-specific objective evidence or third-party evidence of the selling prices of the deliverables. Also, see "Recent Accounting Pronouncements" below.
45
Table of Contents
We evaluate whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of product sales and
related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are primarily obligated in a transaction, are subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, or have several but not all of these
indicators, revenue is recorded at the gross sales price. If we are not primarily obligated, and do not have latitude in establishing prices, amounts earned are determined using a fixed percentage, a fixed-payment schedule, or a combination of the
two, we generally record the net amounts as commissions earned. Product sales and shipping revenues, net of promotional
discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes to customers. Retail sales to customers are made pursuant to a sales contract that provides for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon our
delivery to the carrier. Return allowances, which reduce product revenue, are estimated using historical experience. Revenue from product sales and services rendered is recorded net of sales and consumption taxes. Amounts received in advance for
subscription services, including amounts received for Amazon Prime and other membership programs, are deferred and recognized as revenue over the subscription term. We periodically provide incentive offers to our customers to encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such as percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such
as offers for future discounts subject to a minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to the purchase price of the related transaction, while inducement
offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to purchase price based on estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers
and inducement offers are presented as a net amount in "Net sales." Commissions and per-unit fees received from
sellers and similar amounts earned through other seller sites are recognized when items are sold by sellers and our collectability is reasonably assured. We record an allowance for estimated refunds on such commissions using historical experience.
Shipping Activities Outbound shipping charges to customers are included in "Net sales." Outbound shipping-related costs are included in "Cost of sales."
Cost of Sales Cost of sales consists of the purchase price of consumer products and content sold by us, inbound and outbound shipping charges, and packaging supplies. Shipping charges to receive products from our
suppliers are included in inventory cost, and recognized as "Cost of sales" upon sale of products to our customers. Payment processing and related transaction costs, including those associated with seller transactions, are classified in
"Fulfillment" on our consolidated statements of operations. Vendor Agreements
We have agreements to receive cash consideration from certain of our vendors, including rebates and cooperative marketing reimbursements.
We generally consider amounts received from our vendors as a reduction of the prices we pay for their products and, therefore, record such amounts as a reduction of the cost of inventory we buy from them. Vendor rebates are typically dependent upon
reaching minimum purchase thresholds. We evaluate the likelihood of reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts. When volume rebates can be reasonably estimated, we record a portion of the rebate as we make progress
towards the purchase threshold. When we receive direct reimbursements for costs incurred by us in advertising the
vendor's product or service, the amount we receive is recorded as an offset to "Marketing" on our consolidated statements of operations.
46
Table of Contents
Fulfillment Fulfillment costs represent those costs incurred in operating and staffing our fulfillment and customer service centers, including costs attributable to buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing
inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; payment processing and related transaction costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain seller transactions; and responding to inquiries from customers.
Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid to third parties that assist us in fulfillment and customer service operations.
Marketing
Marketing costs consist primarily of targeted online advertising, television advertising, public relations expenditures; and payroll and
related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing, business development, and selling activities. We pay commissions to participants in our Associates program when their customer referrals result in product sales and classify such costs as
"Marketing" on our consolidated statements of operations. We also participate in cooperative advertising arrangements with certain of our vendors, and other third parties.
Advertising and other promotional costs, are expensed as incurred, and were $890 million, $593 million, and $420 million in 2010, 2009,
and 2008. Prepaid advertising costs were not significant at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Technology and Content
Technology and content expenses consist principally of payroll and related expenses for employees involved in application
development, category expansion, editorial content, buying, merchandising selection, and systems support, as well as costs associated with the compute, storage and telecommunications infrastructure used internally and supporting AWS.
Technology and content costs are expensed as incurred, except for certain costs relating to the development of internal-use software and
website development, including software used to upgrade and enhance our websites and applications supporting our business, which are capitalized and amortized over two years. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of
payroll and related expenses for employees involved in general corporate functions, including accounting, finance, tax, legal, and human relations, among others; costs associated with use by these functions of facilities and equipment, such as
depreciation expense and rent; professional fees and litigation costs; and other general corporate costs. Stock-Based
Compensation Compensation cost for all stock-based awards expected to vest is measured at fair value on the date of grant
and recognized over the service period. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock. Such value is recognized as expense over the service period, net of
estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded
as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including employee class, economic environment, and historical experience.
Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net, consists primarily of intangible asset amortization expense, expenses related to legal settlements, and certain gains and losses on the sale of assets.
47
Table of Contents
Other Income (Expense), Net
Other income (expense), net, consists primarily of gains and losses on sales of marketable securities and foreign currency transaction
gains and losses. Foreign Currency We have internationally-focused websites for the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Japan, Canada, China, and Italy. Net sales generated from internationally-focused websites, as well as most of the
related expenses directly incurred from those operations, are denominated in the functional currencies of the resident countries. The functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support these international websites is the same as
the local currency. Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars at period-end exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated at average rates prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are
included in "Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)," a separate component of stockholders' equity, and in the "Foreign currency effect on cash and cash equivalents," on our consolidated statements of cash flows.
Transaction gains and losses including intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity involved are included in "Other income (expense), net" on our consolidated statements of
operations. In connection with the remeasurement of intercompany balances, we recorded losses of $70 million in 2010, and gains of $5 million, and $23 million in 2009 and 2008.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2009-17, Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved With Variable Interest Entities, which
provides authoritative guidance on the consolidation of variable interest entities. The new guidance requires a qualitative approach to identifying a controlling financial interest in a variable interest entity ("VIE"), and requires
ongoing assessment of whether an entity is a VIE and whether an interest in a VIE makes the holder the primary beneficiary of the VIE. We adopted this guidance on January 1, 2010. Adoption did not have a material impact on our consolidated
financial statements. On January 1, 2010, we prospectively adopted ASU 2009-13, which amends Accounting Standards
Codification ("ASC") Topic 605, Revenue Recognition. Under this standard, we allocate revenue in arrangements with multiple deliverables using estimated selling prices if we do not have vendor-specific objective evidence or third-party
evidence of the selling prices of the deliverables. Estimated selling prices are management's best estimates of the prices that we would charge our customers if we were to sell the standalone elements separately.
Sales of our Kindle e-reader are considered arrangements with multiple deliverables, consisting of the device, 3G wireless access and
delivery for some models, and software upgrades. Under the prior accounting standard, we accounted for sales of the Kindle ratably over the average estimated life of the device. Accordingly, revenue and associated product cost of the device through
December 31, 2009, were deferred at the time of sale and recognized on a straight-line basis over the two year average estimated economic life. As of January 2010, we account for the sale of the Kindle as multiple deliverables. The revenue related to the device, which is the substantial portion of the total sale price, and related costs are
recognized upon delivery. Revenue related to 3G wireless access and delivery and software upgrades is amortized over the average life of the device, which remains estimated at two years.
Because we have adopted ASU 2009-13 prospectively, we are recognizing $508 million throughout 2010 and 2011 for revenue previously
deferred under the prior accounting standard. In January 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-6, Improving Disclosures About
Fair Value Measurements, which requires reporting entities to make new disclosures about recurring or nonrecurring fair-value measurements including significant transfers into and out of Level 1 and Level 2 fair-value measurements and
information on purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements on a gross basis in the reconciliation of Level 3 fair-value
48
Table of Contents
measurements. ASU 2010-6 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009, except for Level 3 reconciliation disclosures which are effective for annual periods
beginning after December 15, 2010. The adoption of ASU 2010-6 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statement disclosures.
Note 2--CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES
As of December 31, 2010 and 2009 our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities primarily consisted of cash, U.S. and foreign
government and agency securities, AAA-rated money market funds and other investment grade securities. Such amounts are recorded at fair value. The following table summarizes, by major security type, our assets that are measured at fair value on a
recurring basis and are categorized using the fair value hierarchy (in millions):
49
Table of Contents
The following table summarizes gross gains and gross losses realized on sales of
available-for-sale marketable securities (in millions):
The following table
summarizes contractual maturities of our cash equivalent and marketable fixed-income securities as of December 31, 2010 (in millions):
Note 3--FIXED ASSETS Fixed assets, at cost, consisted of the following (in millions):
Depreciation expense on fixed assets was $552 million, $384 million, and $311 million which includes amortization of fixed assets
acquired under capital lease obligations of $164 million, $88 million, and $50 million for 2010, 2009, and 2008. Gross assets remaining under capital leases were $818 million, and $430 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Accumulated
depreciation associated with capital leases was $331 million and $184 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009.
50
Table of Contents
We capitalize construction in progress and record a corresponding long-term liability for
lease agreements where we are considered the owner during the construction period for accounting purposes, including portions of our Seattle, Washington, corporate office space that we do not currently occupy. The buildings which we have not yet
occupied are scheduled to be completed between 2011 and 2013. For buildings that are under build-to-suit lease arrangements,
where we have taken occupancy during the year ended December 31, 2010, we determined that we continue to be the deemed owner. These arrangements do not qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance due principally
to our significant investment in tenant improvements. As a result, the buildings in the amount of $189 million have been reclassified within "Fixed assets" from "Construction in progress" to "Other corporate assets" and
are being depreciated over the shorter of their useful lives or the related lease terms. The long-term construction obligation has been reclassified within "Long-term liabilities" from "Construction liability" to "Long-term
financing lease obligations" with amounts payable during the next 12 months recorded as "Accrued expenses and other."
Note 4--ACQUISITIONS, GOODWILL, AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS
2010 Acquisition Activity In 2010, we acquired certain companies for an aggregate purchase price of $228 million, resulting in goodwill of $111 million and acquired intangible assets of $91 million. The primary reasons for these
acquisitions were to expand our customer base and sales channels. The purchase price was allocated to the tangible assets and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values on the acquisition date, with the
remaining unallocated purchase price recorded as goodwill. The fair value assigned to identifiable intangible assets acquired has been determined primarily by using the income and cost approach. Purchased identifiable intangible assets are amortized
on a straight-line or accelerated basis over their respective useful lives. The acquired companies were consolidated into our
financial statements starting on their respective acquisition dates. The financial effect of these acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, was not material to our consolidated financial statements. Pro forma results of operations have not
been presented because the effects of these business combinations, individually and in the aggregate, were not material to our consolidated results of operations. 2009 Acquisition Activity On November 1, 2009, we acquired 100% of
the outstanding equity of Zappos.com, Inc. ("Zappos"), in exchange for shares of our common stock, to expand our presence in softline retail categories, such as shoes and apparel.
The fair value of Zappos' stock options assumed was determined using the Black-Scholes model. The following table summarizes the
consideration paid for Zappos (in millions):
The purchase price was allocated to the tangible assets and intangible assets acquired and liabilities
assumed based on their estimated fair values on the acquisition date, with the remaining unallocated purchase price recorded as goodwill. The fair value assigned to identifiable intangible assets acquired has been determined primarily by using the
income approach. Purchased identifiable intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line and accelerated basis over their respective useful lives.
51
Table of Contents
The following summarizes the allocation of the Zappos purchase price (in millions):
Zappos' financial results have been included in our consolidated statements of income as of November 1, 2009. The following pro
forma financial information presents the results as if the Zappos acquisition had occurred at the beginning of each year presented (in millions):
We acquired certain
additional companies during 2009 for an aggregate purchase price of $26 million, resulting in goodwill of $16 million and acquired intangible assets of $5 million. All of the entities have been consolidated into our financial statements since their
respective acquisition dates. Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because the effects of these business combinations, individually and in the aggregate, were not material to our consolidated results of operations.
2008 Acquisition Activity We acquired certain companies during 2008 for an aggregate purchase price of $432 million, resulting in goodwill of $210 million and acquired intangible assets of $162 million. All of these entities have
been consolidated into our financial statements since their respective acquisition dates. Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because the effects of these business combinations, individually and in the aggregate, were not
material to our consolidated results of operations. Goodwill
Goodwill is generally not deductible for tax purposes and is primarily comprised of intangible assets that do not qualify for separate
recognition. The following summarizes our goodwill activity in 2010 and 2009 (in millions):
52
Table of Contents
Intangible Assets
Acquired intangible assets, included within "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets, consist of the following:
Amortization expense for acquired intangibles was $105 million, $48 million, and $29 million in 2010, 2009, and 2008. Expected future amortization expense of acquired intangible assets as of
December 31, 2010 is as follows (in millions):
Note 5--LONG-TERM LIABILITIES Our long-term liabilities are summarized as follows:
53
Table of Contents
Long-term Debt
As of December 31, 2010, and 2009, our long-term debt was $184 million and $109 million, had a weighted average interest rate of 5.5%
and 6.4%, and maturities in 2011, 2012, and 2013. Long-term debt relates to amounts borrowed to fund certain international operations. Capital Leases Certain of our equipment fixed assets, primarily related to
technology infrastructure, have been acquired under capital leases. Long-term capital lease obligations are as follows:
Financing leases We continue to be the deemed owner after occupancy of certain facilities that were constructed as build-to-suit lease arrangements and previously reflected as "Construction liability." As such,
these arrangements are accounted for as financing leases. Long-term finance lease obligations are as follows:
Construction Liabilities We capitalize construction in progress and record a corresponding long-term liability for certain build-to-suit lease agreements where we are considered the owner during the construction period for
accounting purposes, including our Seattle, Washington, corporate office space that we do not currently occupy. See "Note 3--Fixed Assets" for a discussion of these leases.
Tax Contingencies As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we have recorded tax reserves for tax contingencies, inclusive of accrued interest and penalties, of approximately $243 million and $202 million for U.S. and foreign
income taxes. These contingencies primarily relate to transfer pricing, state income taxes, and research and development credits. See "Note 9--Income Taxes" for discussion of tax contingencies.
The remainder of our long-term liabilities primarily include deferred tax liabilities, unearned revenue, asset retirement obligations,
and deferred rental liabilities.
54
Table of Contents
Note 6--COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Commitments We have entered into non-cancellable operating, capital and
financing leases for equipment and office, fulfillment center, and data center facilities. Rental expense under operating lease agreements was $225 million, $171 million, and $158 million for 2010, 2009, and 2008.
The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders for inventory purchases that support normal
operations, as of December 31, 2010:
Pledged Securities We have pledged or otherwise restricted $160 million and $303 million in 2010 and 2009 of our cash and marketable securities as collateral for standby and trade letters of credit, guarantees, debt related
to our international operations, as well as real estate leases. We classify cash and marketable securities with use restrictions of twelve months or longer as non-current "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets.
Inventory Suppliers During 2010, no vendor accounted for 10% or more of our inventory purchases. We generally do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with our vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise,
particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits. Legal Proceedings
The Company is involved from time to time in claims, proceedings and litigation, including the following:
In June 2001, Audible, Inc., our subsidiary acquired in March 2008, was named as a defendant in a securities class-action filed in United
States District Court for the Southern District of New York related to its initial public offering in July 1999. The lawsuit also named certain of the offering's underwriters, as well as
55
Table of Contents
Audible's officers and directors as defendants. Approximately 300 other issuers and their underwriters have had similar suits filed against them, all of which are included in a single
coordinated proceeding in the Southern District of New York. The complaints allege that the prospectus and the registration statement for Audible's offering failed to disclose that the underwriters allegedly solicited and received
"excessive" commissions from investors and that some investors allegedly agreed with the underwriters to buy additional shares in the aftermarket in order to inflate the price of Audible's stock. Audible and its officers and
directors were named in the suits pursuant to Section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and other related provisions. The complaints seek unspecified damages, attorney and expert
fees, and other unspecified litigation costs. In March 2009, all parties, including Audible, reached a settlement of these class actions that would resolve this dispute entirely with no payment required from Audible. The settlement was approved by
the Court in October 2009, and that settlement is currently under appeal to the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
Beginning in March 2003, we were served with complaints filed in several different states, including Illinois, by a private litigant,
Beeler, Schad & Diamond, P.C., purportedly on behalf of the state governments under various state False Claims Acts. The complaints allege that we (along with other companies with which we have commercial agreements) wrongfully failed to
collect and remit sales and use taxes for sales of personal property to customers in those states and knowingly created records and statements falsely stating we were not required to collect or remit such taxes. In December 2006, we learned that one
additional complaint was filed in the state of Illinois by a different private litigant, Matthew T. Hurst, alleging similar violations of the Illinois state law. All of the complaints seek injunctive relief, unpaid taxes, interest, attorneys'
fees, civil penalties of up to $10,000 per violation, and treble or punitive damages under the various state False Claims Acts. It is possible that we have been or will be named in similar cases in other states as well. We dispute the allegations of
wrongdoing in these complaints and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in these matters. In August 2006, Cordance
Corporation filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including our 1-Click ordering system, infringes a patent obtained
by Cordance purporting to cover an "Object-Based Online Transaction Infrastructure" (U.S. Patent No. 6,757,710) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages in an amount no less than a reasonable royalty, treble damages for alleged
willful infringement, prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys' fees. In response, we asserted a declaratory judgment counterclaim in the same action alleging that a service that Cordance has advertised its intent to launch infringes a patent
owned by us entitled "Networked Personal Contact Manager" (U.S. Patent No. 6,269,369). In August 2009, a jury trial was held and the jury found that all asserted claims of the '710 patent were not infringed by Amazon or were
invalid. In February 2010, the Court partially reversed the jury's findings, ruling that some of the asserted claims of the '710 Patent were valid and were infringed by Amazon. We commenced our appeal of the Court's ruling in the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in August 2010. In November 2007, an Austrian copyright collection society,
Austro-Mechana, filed lawsuits against several Amazon.com EU subsidiaries in the Commercial Court of Vienna, Austria and in the District Court of Munich, Germany seeking to collect a tariff on blank digital media sold by our EU-based retail websites
to customers located in Austria. In July 2008, the German court stayed the German case pending a final decision in the Austrian case. In July 2010, the Austrian court ruled in favor of Austro-Mechana and ordered us to report all sales of
products to which the tariff potentially applies for a determination of damages. We contest Austro-Mechana's claim and in September 2010 commenced an appeal in the Commercial Court of Vienna.
In March 2009, Discovery Communications, Inc. filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court
for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges that our Kindle e-reader infringes a patent owned by Discovery purporting to cover an "Electronic Book Security and Copyright Protection System" (U.S. Patent No. 7,298,851) and seeks
monetary damages, a continuing royalty sufficient to compensate Discovery for any future infringement, treble damages, costs and attorneys fees. In May 2009, we filed counterclaims and an additional lawsuit in the United States District Court for
the Western District of
56
Table of Contents
Washington against Discovery alleging infringement of several patents owned by Amazon and requesting a declaration that several Discovery patents, including the one listed above, are invalid and
unenforceable. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In April
2009, Parallel Networks, LLC filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our website technology infringes a patent owned
by Parallel Networks purporting to cover a "Method And Apparatus For Client-Server Communication Using a Limited Capability Client Over A Low-Speed Communications Link" (U.S. Patent No. 6,446,111) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary
damages, costs and attorneys fees. The complaint was dismissed without prejudice in February 2010, but the plaintiff filed a new complaint against us the following month containing similar allegations. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and
intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In May 2009, Big Baboon, Inc. filed a complaint against us for patent
infringement in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our third-party selling and payments technology infringes a patent owned by Big Baboon, Inc. purporting to cover
an "Integrated Business-to-Business Web Commerce and Business Automation System" (U.S. Patent No. 6,115,690) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, treble damages, costs and attorneys fees. We dispute the allegations of
wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In June 2009, Bedrock Computer Technologies LLC filed a
complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our website technology infringes a patent owned by Bedrock purporting to cover a
"Method And Apparatus For Information Storage and Retrieval Using a Hashing Technique with External Chaining and On-the-Fly Removal of Expired Data" (U.S. Patent Nos. 5,893,120) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, enhanced
damages, a compulsory future royalty, costs and attorneys fees. The complaint was dismissed without prejudice in March 2010, but the plaintiff filed a new complaint against us the following month containing similar allegations. We dispute the
allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In September 2009, SpeedTrack, Inc. filed
a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our website technology infringes a patent owned by SpeedTrack purporting to
cover a "Method For Accessing Computer Files and Data, Using Linked Categories Assigned to Each Data File Record on Entry of the Data File Record" (U.S. Patent Nos. 5,544,360) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, enhanced
damages, costs and attorneys fees. In November 2009, the Court entered an order staying the lawsuit pending the outcome of the Patent and Trademark Office's re-examination of the patent in suit and the resolution of similar litigation against
another party. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In
September 2009, Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges that our website technology and digital content distribution
systems infringe six of Alcatel-Lucent's patents and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, a continuing royalty sufficient to compensate Alcatel-Lucent for any future infringement, treble damages, costs and attorneys fees. In January 2010,
we filed counterclaims against Alcatel-Lucent alleging infringement of a patent owned by Amazon and that the patents asserted by Alcatel-Lucent are invalid and unenforceable. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend
ourselves in this matter. In October 2009, Eolas Technologies Incorporated filed a complaint against us for patent
infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our website technology infringes two patents owned by Eolas purporting to cover "Distributed Hypermedia Method
for Automatically Invoking External Application Providing Interaction and Display of Embedded Objects within a Hypermedia Document" (U.S. Patent No. 5,838,906) and "Distributed Hypermedia Method and
57
Table of Contents
System for Automatically Invoking External Application Providing Interaction and Display of Embedded Objects within a Hypermedia Document" (U.S. Patent No. 7,599,985) and seeks
injunctive relief, monetary damages, costs and attorneys fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In December 2009, Nazomi Communications, Inc. filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other
things, that the processor core in our Kindle e-reader infringes two patents owned by Nazomi purporting to cover "Java virtual machine hardware for RISC and CISC processors" and "Java hardware accelerator using microcode
engine" (U.S. Patent Nos. 7,080,362 and 7,225,436) and seeks monetary damages, injunctive relief, costs and attorneys fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter.
In February 2010, Texas OCR Technologies LLC filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for
the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleged, among other things, that our Search Inside the Book feature infringes a patent owned by Texas OCR Technologies purporting to cover a "Methodology for Displaying Search Results Using
Character Recognition" (U.S. Patent No. 6,363,179) and sought monetary damages, costs and attorneys fees. In January 2011, we settled this litigation on terms that include a nonexclusive license to the patent in suit and, accordingly, the
lawsuit has been dismissed with prejudice. In May 2010, Sharing Sound LLC filed a complaint against us for patent
infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleged, among other things, that our website technology infringes a patent licensed by the plaintiffs purporting to cover a "Distribution of
Musical Products by a Website Vendor Over the Internet" (U.S. Patent No. 6,233,682) and sought monetary damages, injunctive relief, costs and attorneys fees. In January 2011, we settled this litigation on terms that include a nonexclusive
license to the patent in suit and, accordingly, we expect the lawsuit to be dismissed with prejudice. In May 2010, Site
Update Solutions LLC filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our website technology infringes a patent owned by
Site Update purporting to cover a "Process for Maintaining Ongoing Registration for Pages on a Given Search Engine" (U.S. Patent No. RE40,683) and seeks monetary damages, a future royalty, costs and attorneys fees. We dispute the
allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In May 2010, Stragent, LLC and Seesaw
Foundation filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain of our AWS technologies infringe a patent licensed by the
plaintiffs purporting to cover a "Method of Providing Data Dictionary-Driven Web-Based Database Applications" (U.S. Patent No. 6,832,226) and seeks monetary damages, a future royalty, costs and attorneys fees. We dispute the
allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In July 2010, Positive Technologies Inc.
filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain of our products, including our Kindle e-reader, infringe three
patents owned by the plaintiff purporting to cover a "DC Integrating Display Driver Employing Pixel Status Memories" (U.S. Patent Nos. 5,444,457, 5,627,558 and 5,831,588) and seeks monetary damages, injunctive relief, costs and
attorneys fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In July
2010, the Federal Trade Commission staff informed us that it was considering whether to recommend enforcement proceedings against us for advertising and selling certain textile fiber products as "bamboo" when they are made of rayon
manufactured from bamboo, in violation of the Textile Fiber Product
58
Table of Contents
Identification Act, the FTC Act, and the regulations promulgated there under. We do not believe we have violated these laws and regulations and are cooperating voluntarily with the
Commission's inquiry. In September 2010, Olympic Developments AG, LLC filed a complaint against us for patent
infringement in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain aspects of our technology, including our Kindle e-reader, infringe two patents owned by the plaintiff
purporting to cover a "Transactional Processing System" (U.S. Patent No. 5,475,585) and a "Device for Controlling Remote Interactive Receiver" (U.S. Patent No. 6,246,400B1) and seeks monetary damages, injunctive relief,
costs and attorneys fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter.
In November 2010, Kelora Systems, LLC filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for
the Western District of Wisconsin. The complaint alleges that our website infringes a patent owned by Kelora Systems purporting to cover a "Method and system for executing a guided parametric search" (U.S. Patent No. 6,275,821) and
seeks monetary damages, costs, attorneys fees, and injunctive relief. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In December 2010, Global Sessions LP filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other
things, that certain Amazon and AWS technologies infringe four patents owned by the plaintiff purporting to cover a "System And Method For Maintaining A State For A User Session Using A Web System Having A Global Session Server" (U.S.
Patent No. 6,076,108), an "Enterprise Interaction Hub For Managing An Enterprise Web System" (U.S. Patent Nos. 6,085,220 and 6,360,249), and a "System And Method For Maintaining A State For A User Session Using A Web System"
(U.S. Patent No. 6,480,894), and seeks monetary damages, a future royalty, injunctive relief, costs and attorneys fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter.
In December 2010, Technology Innovations, LLC filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court
for the Southern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon's sale of e-books and Kindle e-readers infringes a patent owned by the plaintiff purporting to cover a "Device For Including Enhancing Information
With Printed Information And Method For Electronic Searching Thereof" (U.S. Patent No. 5,517,407) and seeks monetary damages, injunctive relief, costs, interest, and attorneys fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to
vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. Depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution of some or all
of these matters could materially affect our business, results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. Other Contingencies
In September 2010, the State of Texas issued an assessment of $269 million for uncollected sales taxes for the period from
December 2005 to December 2009, including interest and penalties through the date of the assessment. The State of Texas is alleging that we should have collected sales taxes on applicable sales transactions during those years. We believe that the
State of Texas did not provide a sufficient basis for its assessment and that the assessment is without merit. We intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. Depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution of this matter could materially affect our business, results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.
See also "Note 9--Income Taxes."
59
Table of Contents
Note 7--STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY Preferred Stock We have authorized 500 million shares of $0.01 par
value Preferred Stock. No preferred stock was outstanding for any period presented. Common Stock
Common shares outstanding plus shares underlying outstanding stock awards totaled 465 million, 461 million, and
446 million, at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. These totals include all vested and unvested stock-based awards outstanding, before consideration of estimated forfeitures.
Stock Repurchase Activity In January 2010, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $2 billion of our common stock, which replaces the Board's prior authorization. We did not repurchase any of our
common stock in 2010 or 2009. We repurchased 2.2 million shares of common stock for $100 million in 2008 under the $1 billion repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors in February 2008.
Stock Award Plans Employees vest in restricted stock unit awards over the corresponding service term, generally between two and five years. Stock Award Activity We granted restricted stock units representing
5.3 million, 6.0 million, and 7.3 million shares of common stock during 2010, 2009, and 2008 with a per share weighted average fair value of $140.43, $79.24, and $72.21.
The following summarizes our restricted stock unit activity (in millions):
Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units at December 31, 2010 is as follows (in
millions):
60
Table of Contents
As of December 31, 2010, there was $601 million of net unrecognized compensation cost
related to unvested stock-based compensation arrangements. This compensation is recognized on an accelerated basis resulting in approximately half of the compensation expected to be expensed in the next twelve months, and has a weighted average
recognition period of 1.4 years. During 2010 and 2009, the fair value of restricted stock units that vested was $792 million
and $551 million. As matching contributions under our 401(k) savings plan, we granted 0.1 million shares of common stock
in both 2010 and 2009. Shares granted as matching contributions under our 401(k) plan are included in outstanding common stock when issued. Common Stock Available for Future Issuance At December 31, 2010,
common stock available for future issuance to employees is 160 million shares.
Note 8--OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) The components of other comprehensive income (loss) are as follows:
Balances within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are as follows:
Note 9--INCOME TAXES In 2010, 2009, and 2008 we recorded net tax provisions of $352 million, $253 million, and $247 million. A majority of this provision is non-cash. We have current tax benefits and net operating losses
relating to excess stock-based compensation that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. As such, cash taxes paid, net of refunds, were $75 million, $48 million, and $53 million for 2010, 2009, and 2008.
61
Table of Contents
The components of the provision for income taxes, net are as follows:
U.S. and international components of income before income taxes are as follows:
The items accounting for differences between income taxes computed
at the federal statutory rate and the provision recorded for income taxes are as follows:
The effective tax rate in 2010, 2009, and 2008 was lower than the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate primarily
due to earnings of our subsidiaries outside of the U.S. in jurisdictions where our effective tax rate is lower than in the U.S. Included in the total tax provision as a discrete item during 2008 is the impact related to the $53 million noncash gain
associated with the sale of our European DVD rental assets. This gain was taxed at rates substantially below the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate.
62
Table of Contents
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are as follows:
Tax Contingencies
We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax
positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties
based on estimates of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. These reserves are established when we believe that certain positions might be challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable.
We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the outcome of tax audits. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate.
63
Table of Contents
The reconciliation of our tax contingencies is as follows (in millions):
Due to the nature of our business operations we expect the total amount of tax contingencies for prior period
tax positions will grow in 2011 in comparable amounts to 2010, however changes in state and federal tax laws may increase our tax contingencies. It is reasonably possible that within the next 12 months we will receive additional assessments by
various tax authorities. These assessments may not result in changes to our contingencies. As of December 31, 2010 and
2009, we had accrued interest and penalties, net of federal income tax benefit, related to tax contingencies of $21 million and $17 million. Interest and penalties, net of federal income tax benefit, recognized for the year ended December 31,
2010 and 2009 was $4 million and $3 million. We are under examination, or may be subject to examination, by the Internal
Revenue Service ("IRS") for calendar years 2005 through 2010. Additionally, any net operating losses that were generated in prior years and utilized in 2005 through 2010 may also be subject to examination by the IRS. We are under
examination, or may be subject to examination, in the following major jurisdictions for the years specified: Kentucky for 2005 through 2010, France for 2007 through 2010, Germany for 2003 through 2010, Japan for 2006 through 2010, Luxembourg for
2005 through 2010, and the United Kingdom for 2004 through 2010. In December 2010, we learned that the French government is investigating certain of our European affiliates regarding income taxes, and we are cooperating.
In addition, in 2007, Japanese tax authorities assessed income tax, including penalties and interest, of approximately $120 million
against one of our U.S. subsidiaries for the years 2003 through 2005. Proceedings on the assessment were stayed during negotiations between U.S. and Japanese tax authorities over the double taxation issues the assessment raised, and we provided bank
guarantees to suspend enforcement of the assessment. In 2010, the U.S. and Japanese tax authorities reached an agreement, on the allocation of our income between the U.S. and Japan for 2003 through 2005. The amount of tax expense, net of related
deductions and foreign tax credits, recorded for this assessment was not significant. We have paid the assessment and the Japanese tax authorities have released all of the bank guarantees.
Note 10--SEGMENT INFORMATION We have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. We present our segment information along the same lines that our chief executive reviews our operating
results in assessing performance and allocating resources. We allocate to segment results the operating expenses
"Fulfillment," "Marketing," "Technology and content," and "General and administrative," but exclude from our allocations the portions of these expense lines attributable to stock-based compensation. We do not
allocate the line item "Other operating expense (income),
64
Table of Contents
net" to our segment operating results. A majority of our costs for "Technology and content" are incurred in the United States and most of these costs are allocated to our North
America segment. There are no internal revenue transactions between our reporting segments. North America
The North America segment consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions
through North America-focused websites such as and and include amounts earned from AWS. This segment includes export sales from and .
International The International segment consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through internationally focused locations. This segment includes
export sales from these internationally based locations (including export sales from these sites to customers in the U.S. and Canada), but excludes export sales from our U.S. and Canadian locations.
Information on reportable segments and reconciliation to consolidated net income is as follows:
Net sales earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions outside of
the U.S. represented approximately half of net sales for 2010, 2009, and 2008. Net sales earned in Germany, Japan, and United Kingdom each represented 11% to 15% of net sales in 2010, and 13% to 17% of net sales in 2009 and 2008.
65
Table of Contents
Total assets, by segment, reconciled to consolidated amounts were (in millions):
Fixed assets, net, by segment, reconciled to consolidated amounts were (in millions):
Fixed assets, net, located outside of the U.S. represented less than 10% of consolidated fixed assets, net,
for any individual country. Depreciation expense, by segment, is as follows (in millions):
Note 11--QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) The following tables contain selected unaudited statement of operations information for each quarter of 2010 and 2009. The following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a
fair presentation of the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Our business is affected by seasonality, which historically has resulted in higher
sales volume during our fourth quarter. Unaudited quarterly results are as follows (in millions, except per share data):
66
Table of Contents
67
Table of Contents
None.
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures We carried out an
evaluation required by the 1934 Act, under the supervision and with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as
defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the 1934 Act, as of December 31, 2010. Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that, as of December 31, 2010, our disclosure controls and procedures
were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the 1934 Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the
SEC's rules and forms and to provide reasonable assurance that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosures. Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined
in Rule 13a-15(f) of the 1934 Act. Management has assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010 based on criteria established in Internal Control--Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. As a result of this assessment, management concluded that, as of December 31, 2010, our internal control over financial reporting was effective in providing reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Ernst & Young has independently assessed the effectiveness of
our internal control over financial reporting and its report is included below. Changes in Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended
December 31, 2010 that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Limitations on Controls Our disclosure controls and procedures and
internal control over financial reporting are designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives as specified above. Management does not expect, however, that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over
financial reporting will prevent or detect all error and fraud. Any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, is based upon certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met.
Further, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected.
68
Table of Contents
Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
The Board of Directors and Stockholders Amazon.com, Inc. We have audited Amazon.com, Inc.'s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in Internal Control--Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Amazon.com, Inc.'s
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal
Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion. A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company's assets that could
have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. In our opinion, Amazon.com, Inc. maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on the COSO criteria. We also have
audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Amazon.com, Inc. as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of
operations, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010 of Amazon.com, Inc. and our report dated January 27, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP Seattle, Washington January 27, 2011
69
Table of Contents
None. PART III
Information regarding our Executive Officers required by Item 10 of Part III is set forth in Item 1 of Part I
"Business--Executive Officers and Directors." Information required by Item 10 of Part III regarding our Directors and any material changes to the process by which security holders may recommend nominees to the Board of Directors
is included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and is incorporated herein by reference. Information relating to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and to compliance with Section 16(a) of the 1934
Act is set forth in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. To the extent permissible under Nasdaq rules, we intend to disclose amendments to our Code of Business Conduct and
Ethics, as well as waivers of the provisions thereof, on our investor relations website under the heading "Corporate Governance" at
Information required by Item 11 of Part III is included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
Information required by Item 12 of Part III is included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
and is incorporated herein by reference.
Information required by Item 13 of Part III is included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
Information required by Item 14 of Part III is included in our Proxy Statement relating our 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
PART IV
(a) List of Documents Filed as a Part of This Report: (1)
Index to Consolidated Financial Statements: Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years ended
December 31, 2010 Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the three years ended
December 31, 2010 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2010 and 2009
70
Table of Contents
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for each of the three
years ended December 31, 2010 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
(2) Index to Exhibits See exhibits listed under the Exhibit Index below.
71
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, as of January 27, 2011.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated as of January 27, 2011.
72