.
1
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (in thousands, except per share data) (Unaudited)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
2
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (in thousands) (Unaudited)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
3
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) March 31, 2002
Note 1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES Unaudited Interim Financial Information The accompanying consolidated financial
statements have been prepared by Amazon.com, Inc. ("Amazon.com" or the "Company") pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for interim financial reporting. These
consolidated financial statements are unaudited and, in the opinion of management, include all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments and accruals, as well as the accounting changes to adopt Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards ("SFAS") No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations," and SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," necessary for a
fair presentation of the consolidated balance sheets, operating results, and cash flows for the periods presented. Operating results for the three months ended March 31, 2002 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the
year ending December 31, 2002 due to seasonal and other factors. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States have
been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes, included in the Company's
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001. Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. Loss per Share The number of shares used in calculating
loss per share for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001 was reduced by 1 million shares in each period. Such reductions reflect the weighted average number of outstanding shares subject to repurchase or forfeiture for the corresponding
periods. The effect of outstanding stock options is antidilutive and, accordingly, is excluded from diluted loss per share. Revenues Amounts billed to customers for outbound shipping charges are included in net sales and were $89
million and $82 million for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Accounting Changes
Change in Accounting for Inventory Costing Effective January 1, 2002, the Company prospectively changed its inventory costing method to the first-in first-out ("FIFO") method of accounting. This change resulted in a
cumulative increase in inventory of $0.8 million, with a corresponding amount recorded to "Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle" on the consolidated statements of operations. The Company has evaluated the effect of the
change on each quarter during 2001 and determined such effect to be less than $1.2 million individually and in the aggregate. The Company has determined this change to be preferable under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
since, among other reasons, it facilitates the Company's record keeping process, significantly improves its ability to provide cost-efficient fulfillment services to third-party companies as part of its services offering, and results in
increased consistency with others in the industry. The Company has received a letter of preferability for this change in inventory costing from its independent auditors.
4
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued) (Unaudited) March
31, 2002
In accordance with Accounting Principles
Board Opinion No. 20, Accounting Changes, the effect of this accounting change is reflected prospectively. Supplemental comparative disclosure as if the change had been retroactively applied to the prior year period is as follows (in thousands,
except per share amounts):
Change in Accounting for Goodwill and Certain Other Intangibles
Effective July 1, 2001 the Company adopted certain provisions of SFAS No. 141, and effective January 1, 2002, the Company
adopted the full provisions of SFAS No. 141 and SFAS No. 142. SFAS No. 141 requires business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001 to be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, and broadens the criteria for recording intangible
assets apart from goodwill. The Company evaluated its goodwill and intangibles acquired prior to June 30, 2001 using the criteria of SFAS No. 141, which resulted in $25 million of other intangibles (comprised entirely of assembled workforce
intangibles) being subsumed into goodwill at January 1, 2002. SFAS No. 142 requires that purchased goodwill and certain indefinite-lived intangibles no longer be amortized, but instead be tested for impairment at least annually. The Company
evaluated its intangible assets and determined that all such assets have determinable lives. SFAS No. 142 prescribes a
two-phase process for impairment testing of goodwill. The first phase, required to be completed by June 30, 2002, screens for impairment; while the second phase (if necessary), required to be completed by December 31, 2002, measures the impairment.
The Company completed its first phase impairment analysis during the current quarter and found no instances of impairment of its recorded goodwill; accordingly, the second testing phase, absent future indicators of impairment, is not necessary
during 2002.
5
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued) (Unaudited) March
31, 2002
In accordance with SFAS No. 142, the effect of this accounting change is reflected
prospectively. Supplemental comparative disclosure as if the change had been retroactively applied to the prior year period is as follows (in thousands, except per share amounts):
For the three months ended March 31, 2002 no goodwill or other intangibles were acquired, impaired or disposed. Other
intangibles consisted of the following (in thousands):
Other intangibles are scheduled to be fully amortized by 2004 with corresponding
amortization estimated to be $3 million, $3 million and $1 million, for the remainder of 2002, fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2004, respectively. Change in Accounting for Derivative Instruments Effective January 1, 2001, the Company
adopted SFAS No. 133, which requires that all derivative instruments be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded each period in current results of operations or other comprehensive income
(loss) depending on whether a derivative is designated as part of a hedge transaction and, if it is, the type of hedge transaction. The adoption of SFAS No. 133 resulted in the reporting of cumulative transition losses of $11 million in the results of operations and $12 million as a stockholders' deficit adjustment during the three months ended March 31, 2001.
6
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued) (Unaudited) March
31, 2002
Note 2. MARKETABLE SECURITIES Marketable securities, at fair value, consist of the following (in thousands):
The Company has pledged a portion of its marketable securities as collateral for
certain of its contractual obligations. See Note 7 of these "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." Note
3. UNEARNED REVENUE During the three months ended March 31, 2002, activity in unearned revenue was
as follows (in thousands):
Note 4. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION During the first quarter of 2001, the Company offered a limited non-compulsory exchange of employee stock options. The exchange resulted in the
voluntary cancellation of employee stock options to purchase 31 million shares of common stock with varying exercise prices in exchange for 12 million employee stock options with an exercise price of $13.375. The option exchange offer resulted in
variable accounting treatment for, at the time of the exchange, approximately 15 million stock options, which includes options granted under the exchange offer and 3 million options, with a weighted average exercise price of $52.41, that were
subject to the exchange offer but were not exchanged. Variable accounting will continue until all options subject to variable accounting treatment are exercised, cancelled or expired. At March 31, 2002, approximately 11 million shares remain under
variable accounting treatment, which includes 10 million options granted under the exchange offer and 1 million options, with a weighted average exercise price of $38.97, that were subject to the exchange offer but were not exchanged. Variable
accounting treatment will result in unpredictable charges or credits, recorded to "Stock-based compensation," dependent on fluctuations in quoted prices for the Company's common stock. Stock-based compensation includes stock-based charges resulting from variable accounting treatment, option-related deferred compensation recorded at the
Company's initial public offering, as well as certain other compensation and severance arrangements. Stock-based compensation also includes the portion of acquisition-
7
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued) (Unaudited) March
31, 2002
related consideration conditioned on the continued tenure of key employees of certain acquired businesses, which must be classified as compensation expense rather than as a component of purchase
price under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Stock-based compensation expense was $11 million (of which $9 million was associated with variable accounting treatment) and $3 million for the three months ended March 31,
2002 and 2001, respectively. As the quoted price of the Company's common stock at March 31, 2001 did not exceed the exercise price of any options subject to variable accounting treatment, no variable accounting related compensation expense was
recorded for the three months ended March 31, 2001. The number of shares of common stock subject to outstanding vested and
unvested employee stock options was approximately 62 million and 66 million, or 17% and 18% of the Company's outstanding common stock, at March 31, 2002 and December 31, 2001, respectively.
The following table shows the amount of stock-based compensation that would have been classified under the following categories had stock-based compensation not been separately
stated on the consolidated statements of operations (in thousands):
Note 5. RESTRUCTURING-RELATED AND OTHER Restructuring-related and other expenses were $10 million and $114 million for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. In the
first quarter of 2001, the Company announced and began implementation of its operational restructuring plan to reduce operating costs, streamline its organizational structure, and consolidate certain of its fulfillment and customer service
operations. This initiative involved the reduction of employee staff by 1,327 positions throughout the Company in managerial, professional, clerical, technical and fulfillment roles; consolidation of its Seattle, Washington corporate office
locations; closure of its McDonough, Georgia fulfillment center; seasonal operation of its Seattle, Washington fulfillment center; closure of its customer service centers in Seattle, Washington and The Hague, Netherlands; and migration of a large
portion of its technology infrastructure to a new operating platform, which entails ongoing lease obligations for technology infrastructure no longer being utilized. Each component of the restructuring plan has been substantially completed. Actual
termination benefits paid were $12 million. During the first quarter 2002 the Company permanently closed its fulfillment center
in Seattle. Additionally, the Company revised its sublease income estimates for Seattle area restructured office space. These items resulted in additional restructuring-related expenses of $10 million primarily associated with ongoing lease
obligations.
8
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued) (Unaudited) March
31, 2002
Restructuring-related charges were as follows (in thousands):
At March 31, 2002, the accrued liability associated with restructuring-related
and other charges was $58 million and consisted of the following (in thousands):
Note 6. OTHER GAINS (LOSSES), NET Other gains (losses), net resulted in gains of $6 million and $34 million for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Other
gains (losses), net consisted of the following (in thousands):
Currency gains and losses arising from the remeasurement of the 6.875%
Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2010 ("6.875% PEACS") principal from Euros to U.S. dollars each period are recorded to "Other gains (losses), net," which resulted in gains of $6 million and $46 million for the three
months ended March 31, 2002 and March 31, 2001, respectively. During the three months ended March 31, 2001, the Company
terminated its commercial agreement with Kozmo.com and recorded a non-cash gain of $22 million, representing the amount of unearned revenue
9
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued) (Unaudited) March
31, 2002
associated with the contract. Since services had not yet been performed under the contract, no amounts associated with this commercial agreement were recognized in "Net sales" during
any period. The Company holds strategic investments in warrants to purchase equity securities of other companies. Warrants that
can be exercised and settled by delivery of net shares such that the Company pays no cash upon exercise ("net share warrants") are deemed derivative financial instruments under the provisions of SFAS No. 133. Net share warrants are not
designated as hedging instruments; accordingly, gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value are recognized on the consolidated statements of operations in the period of change.
Note 7. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Commitments
The Company currently leases office and fulfillment center facilities and fixed assets under non-cancelable operating and
capital leases. Rental expense under operating lease agreements for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001 was $15 million and $25 million, respectively. Future minimum commitments are as follows (in thousands):
At March 31, 2002, the Company remains obligated under gross lease obligations of
$110 million associated with its operational restructuring and anticipates receiving sub-lease income of $60 million to offset these obligations. Pledged Securities The Company has pledged a portion of its marketable securities as
collateral for standby letters of credit that guarantee certain of its contractual obligations, a majority of which relates to property leases; the swap agreement that hedges the foreign-exchange rate risk on a portion of its 6.875% PEACS; and some
of its real estate lease agreements. The amount of marketable securities the Company is required to pledge pursuant to the
10
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued) (Unaudited) March
31, 2002
swap agreement fluctuates with the fair market value of the swap obligation. The total amount of collateral pledged under these agreements was as follows (in thousands):
Legal Proceedings
As previously disclosed, the Company has received informal inquiries from the staff of the SEC with respect to the accounting treatment and disclosures for some of its initial
strategic alliances and has been cooperating with the SEC staff in responding to those inquiries. The Company reviewed its accounting treatment for the transactions with its independent auditors and the SEC staff, and believes its accounting
treatment and disclosures were appropriate. The SEC has notified the Company that it believes that the other party to one such transaction, Ashford.com, improperly reported the resolution of a business dispute with the Company and that the Company
may have allowed such conduct. The SEC has not made a final determination whether an administrative cease-and-desist proceeding should be initiated. The Company believes its actions at all times were proper and that this matter will not affect its
results of operations or financial condition. On April 12, 2001, the Company received a request from the SEC staff for the
voluntary production of documents and information concerning, among other things, previously reported sales of the Company's common stock by its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey Bezos, on February 2 and 5, 2001. The Company is
cooperating with the SEC staff's continuing inquiry. A number of purported class action complaints were filed by holders
of Amazon.com equity and debt securities against the Company, its directors and certain of its senior officers during 2001, in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington, alleging violations of the Securities Act of 1933
(the "1933 Act") and/or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "1934 Act"). On October 5, 2001, plaintiffs in the 1934 Act cases filed a consolidated amended complaint alleging that the Company, together with certain of its
officers and directors and certain third-parties, made false or misleading statements during the period from October 29, 1998 through July 23, 2001 concerning the Company's business, financial condition and results, inventories, future
prospects, and strategic alliance transactions. The 1933 Act complaint alleges that the defendants made false or misleading statements in connection with the Company's February 2000 offering of the 6.875% PEACS. The complaints seek recissionary
and/or compensatory damages and injunctive relief against all defendants. The Company disputes the allegations of wrongdoing in these complaints and intends to vigorously defend itself in these matters. Depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could materially affect the Company's business,
future results of operations, financial position or cash flows in a particular period. From time to time, the Company is
subject to other legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business, including claims of alleged infringement of trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual
11
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued) (Unaudited) March
31, 2002
property rights. The Company currently is not aware of any such legal proceedings or claims that management believes will have, individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on the
Company's business, financial condition or operating results. Inventory Suppliers During the three months ended March 31, 2002, approximately 22% of all inventory purchases were made from two major vendors, of which Ingram Book Group
accounts for over 10%. No other vendors exceeded 10% of purchases during this period. The Company does not have long-term contracts or arrangements with most of its vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms or
the extension of credit limits. Note 8. COMPREHENSIVE LOSS The components of comprehensive loss were as follows (in thousands):
Activity in other comprehensive loss relating to the Euro-based currency swap was
as follows (in thousands):
Note 9. SEGMENT INFORMATION The Company presents information to its chief operating decision maker in four segments: U.S. Books, Music and DVD/Video; U.S. Electronics, Tools and
Kitchen; Services; and International. Accordingly, the Company discloses its segment financial information along these lines.
12
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued) (Unaudited) March
31, 2002
U.S. Books, Music and DVD/Video Segment The U.S. Books, Music and DVD/Video Segment includes revenues, direct costs, and cost allocations associated with retail sales from for books, music and DVD/video
products and for magazine subscription commissions. This segment also includes commissions from sales of these products, new or used, through Amazon Marketplace, and revenues from stores offering these products through the Company's Syndicated
Stores Program (where a third-party seller's e-commerce Web site uses the Company's e-commerce services and tools, and offers the Company's product selection), such as . This segment will also include amounts
earned from offerings of these products by third-party sellers, if any, through the Company's Program (where a third-party seller offers its products for sale on the Company's Web site in the Company's retail stores or in a
co-branded store, or both). U.S. Electronics, Tools and Kitchen Segment The U.S. Electronics, Tools and Kitchen segment includes revenues, direct costs and cost allocations associated with retail sales
of electronics, computers, kitchen and housewares, camera and photo items, software, cell phones and service, tools and hardware, outdoor living items, and computer and video game products sold other than through the Toysrus.com strategic alliance,
as well as catalog sales of toys and tools and hardware. This segment also includes commissions earned from sales of these products, new or used, through Amazon Marketplace and from offerings of these products by third-party sellers under our
Program, including Circuit City, and will include revenues from stores offering these products, if any, through the Syndicated Stores Program. International Segment The International segment includes
all revenues, direct costs, and cost allocations associated with the retail sales of the Company's four internationally-focused Web sites: , , and . These
international sites share a common Amazon.com experience, but are localized in terms of language, products, customer service and fulfillment. This segment includes commissions and other amounts earned from sales of products, new or used, through
Amazon Marketplace and from offerings of products by third-party sellers through the Company's Program, as well as revenues from stores offering these products through the Company's internationally-focused Syndicated
Stores Program, such as . Export sales from are not included in the International segment. Services Segment The Services segment includes revenues, direct costs, and cost
allocations associated with the Company's business-to-business commercial agreements, which will include the Merchant Program (where a third-party seller's e-commerce Web site operates at its own URL using the Company's features and
technology) and, to the extent full product categories are not also offered by the Company through its online retail stores, the Program, as well as the strategic alliance with America Online, Inc. This segment also includes
Auctions, zShops and Payments, and miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. Included in service revenues are
equity-based revenues of $5 million and $9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Equity-based service revenues result from private and public securities received and amortized into results of operations.
13
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued) (Unaudited) March
31, 2002
The Company measures the results of operations of its reportable segments using a
pro forma measure. Pro forma results from operations, which excludes stock-based compensation, amortization of goodwill and other intangibles, and restructuring-related and other charges are not in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States. Information on reportable segments and reconciliation to consolidated net loss is as follows:
Three Months Ended March 31, 2002:
Three Months Ended March 31, 2001:
14
Table of Contents
Item 2.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking
Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding industry prospects and future results of operations or financial position, made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
are forward looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management's current expectations and are inherently
uncertain. Our actual results may differ significantly from management's expectations. The following discussion includes forward-looking statements regarding expectations of future pro forma operating profitability and net sales, each of which
are inherently difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, the rate of growth of the economy in general, the Internet and online commerce, customer spending patterns, the amount
that we invest in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, risks of inventory management, the degree to which we
enter into, maintain and develop relationships with third party sellers and other strategic transactions, fluctuations in the value of securities and non-cash payments we receive in connection with such transactions, foreign currency exchange risks,
seasonality, international growth and expansion, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from
management's expectations, are described in greater detail in the section entitled "Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results," which, along with the following discussion, describes some, but not all, of the factors that could
cause actual results to differ significantly from management's expectations. Critical Accounting Judgments The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission ("SEC") has defined a company's most critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the company's financial condition and results of operations, and which require the
company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments
addressed below. We also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments and assumptions. For additional information see Note 1 "Accounting Policies" in Item 1 of Part I, "Financial Statements
(Unaudited)" of this Form 10-Q, and Note 1 "Description of Business and Accounting Policies" in Item 8 of Part II, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31, 2001. Although we believe that our estimates and assumptions are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
Significant Accounting Policies Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are valued at the lower of cost or market
value ("LCM"), which requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition (whether through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations), and expected
recoverable values of each disposition category. Based on this evaluation, which is applied consistently from period to period, we record a valuation allowance to adjust the carrying amount of our inventories to LCM.
15
Table of Contents
Revenue Recognition We generally recognize revenue from product sales or services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists,
delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. We evaluate the criteria outlined in Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue No. 99-19, "Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an Agent," in determining whether it is appropriate
to record the gross amount of product sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are the primary obligor in a transaction, are subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting
suppliers, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue is recorded gross as a principal. If we are not the primary obligor and amounts earned are determined using a fixed percentage, a fixed-payment schedule, or a combination of the
two, we generally record the net amounts as commissions earned. Product sales, net of promotional gift certificates and return
allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes to customers. Return allowances (which reduce product revenue by our best estimate of expected product returns) are estimated using historical experience.
Commissions received on sales of products from Amazon Marketplace, Auctions and zShops, as well as commissions earned through our
Program (as defined below), are recorded as a net amount since we are acting as an agent in such transactions. Amounts earned are recognized as net sales when the item is sold by the third-party seller and our collectibility is
reasonably assured. We record an allowance for refunds on such commissions using historical experience. We earn revenues from
services, primarily by entering into business-to-business commercial agreements, including providing our technology services such as search, browse and personalization; permitting third parties to offer products or services through our Web sites;
and powering third-party Web sites, providing fulfillment services, or both. These commercial agreements also include miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. As compensation for the services we provide under these agreements, we receive
cash, equity securities or a combination thereof. Generally, the fair value of the equity consideration received is measured when the agreement is executed, but to the extent that the equity consideration is subject to forfeiture or vesting
provisions and no significant performance commitment exists upon execution of the agreement, the fair value of the equity consideration and corresponding revenue is determined as of the date that the forfeiture provision lapses or as the vesting
provision lapses. Subsequent to initial measurement of fair value, appreciation or decline in the fair value of such securities will affect our ultimate realization of equity securities received as compensation; however, any such change does not
affect the amount of revenue to be recognized over the term of the agreement. We generally recognize revenue from these services on a straight-line basis over the period during which we perform services under these agreements, commencing at the
launch date of the service. If we receive non-refundable advance payments, such amounts are deferred for revenue recognition purposes until service commences. Included in Services segment revenues are equity-based service revenues of $5 million and $9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. We are scheduled to recognize $12 million of
remaining deferred equity-based services revenues over various service periods. We have in the past, and may in the future,
amend our agreements with certain of the companies with which we have commercial agreements to modify future cash proceeds to be received by us, modify the term of our commercial agreements, or both. Although these amendments do not affect the
amount of unearned revenue previously recorded by us (if any), the timing of revenue recognition changes to correspond with the terms of amended agreements. These amendments or future amendments will affect the timing and amount of revenues
recognized in connection with these commercial agreements. To the extent we believe any such amendments cause or may cause the compensation to be received under an agreement to no longer be fixed or determinable, we limit our revenue recognition to
amounts received, excluding any future amounts not deemed fixed or
16
Table of Contents
determinable. As future amounts are subsequently received, such amounts are incorporated into our revenue recognition over the remaining term of the agreement. Fair Value of Equity Securities Received as Compensation Under Commercial Agreements For equity securities of public companies received as compensation under commercial agreements, we generally determine fair value based on the quoted market price at the time we enter
into the underlying commercial agreement, and adjust such market price appropriately if significant restrictions on marketability exist. Because an observable market price does not exist for equity securities of private companies, our estimates of
fair value of such securities are more subjective than for the securities of public companies. For significant transactions involving equity securities in private companies, we obtain and consider independent, third-party valuations where
appropriate. Such valuations use a variety of methodologies to estimate fair value, including comparing the security with securities of publicly traded companies in similar lines of business, applying price multiples to estimated future operating
results for the private company, and utilizing estimated discounted cash flows for that company. These valuations also reduce the otherwise fair value by a factor that is intended to account for restrictions on control and marketability where
appropriate. Using these valuations and other information available to us, such as our knowledge of the industry and the company itself, we determine the estimated fair value of the securities received. Restructuring Estimates Restructuring-related liabilities include estimates for, among other things, anticipated disposition of lease obligations. Key variables in determining such estimates include anticipated commencement timing of sub-lease rentals, estimates
of sub-lease rental payment amounts, and estimates for brokerage and other related costs. We periodically evaluate and, if necessary, adjust our estimates based on currently-available information. Results of Operations Net Sales
Net sales include the selling price of consumer products sold by us, less promotional gift certificates and sales returns;
outbound shipping charges billed to our customers; commissions and other amounts earned from sales of new and used products on Amazon Marketplace, Auctions and zShops; amounts earned (fixed fees, sales commissions, per-unit activity fees, or some
combination thereof) for sales of retail products through our Program (where a third party seller offers its products for sale on our Web site in our retail stores or in a co-branded store, or both), including our strategic
alliances with Toysrus.com, Inc. and Circuit City; the selling price of consumer products sold by us through our Syndicated Stores program (where a third-party seller's e-commerce Web site uses our e-commerce services and tools, and offers our
product selection), such as amounts earned (fixed fees, sales commissions, per-unit activity fees, or some combination thereof) in connection with our Merchant Program (where a third-party seller's e-commerce Web site
operates at its own URL using our features and technology), such as Target.com, which is scheduled to launch in the second half of 2002; amounts earned from third parties who utilize our technology services such as search, browse and
personalization; and amounts earned for miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. Net sales were $847 million and
$700 million for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, representing an annual growth rate of 21%. The increase in net sales dollars were primarily attributable to our International segment and our U.S. Books, Music and
DVD/Video segment, which increased $93 million and $33 million, respectively. Net sales for our U.S. Books, Music and DVD/Video
segment were $443 million and $410 million for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, representing an increase of 8%. This segment includes retail sales from of books, music and DVD/video products and for
magazine subscription commissions. This segment also includes commissions from sales of these products, new or used,
17
Table of Contents
through Amazon Marketplace and revenues from stores offering these products through our Syndicated Stores Program, such as . This segment will also include amounts earned
from offerings of these products by third-party sellers, if any, under our Program. The renewed growth in our U.S. Books, Music and DVD/Video segment reflects several factors including our recent price reductions on books over
$20 and the introduction of a new shipping option at that offers free shipping for certain orders of $99 or more. Net sales for our U.S. Electronics, Tools and Kitchen segment were $126 million and $117 million for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, representing an increase of 8%. This segment includes
retail sales of electronics, computers, kitchen and housewares, camera and photo items, software, cell phones and service, tools and hardware, outdoor living items, and computer and video game products sold other than through our Toysrus.com
strategic alliance, as well as catalog sales of toys and tools and hardware. This segment also includes commissions earned from sales of these products, new or used, through Amazon Marketplace and from offerings of these products by third-party
sellers under our Program, including Circuit City, and will include revenues from stores offering these products, if any, through our Syndicated Stores Program. The growth in our U.S. Electronics, Tools and Kitchen segment is
attributable to change in mix of product sales towards products with generally higher average selling prices. During the three
months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, Amazon Marketplace represented 23% and 4%, respectively, of total U.S. orders, or 12% and 2%, respectively, of total U.S. units served. Net sales for our International segment were $226 million and $132 million for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. These results represent an annual growth rate
of 71%. This segment includes all retail sales of our four internationally-focused Web sites: , , and . These international sites share a common Amazon
experience, but are localized in terms of language, products, customer service and fulfillment. This segment includes commissions from sales of products, new or used, through Amazon Marketplace and other amounts earned from offerings of these
products by third party sellers through our Program, as well as revenues from stores offering these products through our internationally-focused Syndicated Stores Program, such as . Export sales from
are not included in the International segment. The increase in net sales from our International segment results from increased unit sales in each of the four internationally-focused Web sites. Net sales for our Services segment were $53 million and $42 million for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, representing an
increase of 25%. This segment consists of commissions, fees and other amounts earned from our business-to-business commercial agreements, which will include our Merchant Program and, to the extent full product categories are not also offered by us
through our online retail stores, our Program, as well as our commercial agreement with America Online, Inc. This segment also includes Auctions, zShops and Payments, and miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. The
increase in net sales from our Services segment is attributable to our Program, as well as miscellaneous other marketing and promotional agreements. The amount of compensation we receive under certain of these services agreements
is dependent on the volume of sales that the other company makes. See "Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results--Our Business Could Suffer If We Are Unsuccessful in Making and Integrating Strategic Alliances and Other Business
Relationships." Shipping revenue, which consists of outbound shipping charges to our customers, across all segments was
$89 million and $82 million for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Shipping revenue does not include any commissions earned from Amazon Marketplace. Shipping revenue generally corresponds with unit sales levels, offset by
our periodic free and the reduced-shipping promotions. In January 2002, we introduced a new shipping option at , offering free shipping for certain orders of $99 or more. We offer or may offer a similar shipping option for our
internationally-focused Web sites. The effect of
18
Table of Contents
these shipping offers will reduce shipping revenue as a percentage of sales, and will cause our gross margins on retail sales to decline.
We expect net sales to be between $765 million and $815 million for the quarter ending June 30, 2002, or grow between 15% and 22% compared to the second quarter of 2001, and net
sales to grow by over 15% in 2002 compared to 2001. However, any such projections are subject to substantial uncertainty. See "Additional Factors that May Affect Future Results." Gross Profit Gross profit is net sales less the cost of
sales, which consists of the purchase price of consumer products sold by us, inbound and outbound shipping charges to us, packaging supplies, and certain costs associated with our service revenues. Costs associated with our service revenues
classified as cost of services generally include fulfillment-related costs to ship products on behalf of third-party sellers, costs to provide customer service, credit card fees and other related costs. Effective January 1, 2002, we prospectively changed our inventory costing method to the first-in first-out ("FIFO") method of accounting. This
change resulted in a cumulative effect increase in product inventory of $0.8 million, with a corresponding amount recorded to "Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle" on the statements of operations. We have evaluated the
effect of the change on each quarter during 2001 and determined such effect to be less than $1.2 million individually and in the aggregate. We have determined this change to be preferable under accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States since, among other reasons, it facilitates our record keeping process, significantly improves our ability to provide cost-efficient fulfillment services to third-party companies as part of our services offering, and results in increased
consistency with others in our industry. Gross profit was $223 million and $183 million for the three months ended March 2002
and 2001, respectively, representing an increase of 22%. Gross margin was 26% for each of the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Increases in the absolute dollars of gross profit primarily correspond with increases in
units sold, improvements in transportation and inventory management, improved product sourcing, increased product sales through Amazon Marketplace, as well as growth in our Services segment, offset by price reductions on books over $20 and the
introduction of our free shipping option on orders of $99 or more. We intend to continue to focus on lowering prices for customers over time. Excluding the results of our Services segment, gross margin would have been 24% and 23%, respectively.
Gross profit for our U.S. Books, Music and DVD/video segment was $123 million and $109 million for the three months ended March
31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, which represents an increase of 13%. Gross margin was 28% and 27% for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The slight improvement in gross margin in comparison with the prior year period
corresponds with the higher margin sales of new and used products sold through Amazon Marketplace, improvements in transportation and inventory management, and continued improvements in product sourcing, offset by higher customer discounts and our
free shipping offer. Gross profit for our U.S. Electronics, Tools and Kitchen segment was $19 million and $17 million for the
three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, representing an increase of 13%. Gross margin was 15% in each of the comparative periods. Gross margin was positively affected by increased product sales through Amazon Marketplace, offset by
our free shipping offer. During the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, Amazon Marketplace represented 23% and 4%,
respectively, of total U.S. orders, or 12% and 2%, respectively, of total U.S. units served. If product sales through Amazon Marketplace continue to increase, we anticipate improvement in gross margins, offset to the extent we offer additional or
broader customer discounts. Gross profit for our International segment was $49 million and $28 million for the three months
ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, which represents an increase of 75%. Gross margin was 22% and 21%
19
Table of Contents
for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The increase in our absolute gross profit dollars reflects increases in units sold by each of our internationally-focused Web
sites in comparison with the same periods in the prior year. Gross profit for our Services segment was $32 million and $28
million for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, which represents an increase of 12%. Costs associated with our service revenues generally include fulfillment-related costs to ship products on behalf of third-party
sellers, costs to provide customer service, credit card fees and other related costs. Gross margin was 60% and 67% for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Gross profit from our Services segment largely corresponds with
revenues from our commercial agreements, which will include our Merchant Program and, to the extent product categories are not also offered by us through our online retail stores, the Program, as well as our strategic alliance
with America Online, Inc. Gross profit for our Services segment also includes amounts earned through Auctions, zShops and Payments, and miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. The decline in gross margin from our Services segment relates
to service costs classified in cost of sales resulting from the shift in the mix of our strategic relationships towards alliances that incorporate a broader range of services, including fulfillment. Also contributing to the decline in Services gross
margin was a reduction in high-margin marketing and promotional agreements. See "Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results--Our Business Could Suffer If We Are Unsuccessful in Making and Integrating Strategic Alliances and Other
Business Relationships." Shipping loss across all segments was $1 million and $5 million for the three months ended March
31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The loss in shipping is due, in part, to the revenue generated from our business units in countries that offer free shipping or product lines that involve low-margin shipping, as well as free-shipping offers in the
U.S, offset by improvements in transportation management. We continue to measure our shipping results relative to their effect on our overall financial results, with the viewpoint that shipping promotions are an effective marketing tool. In January
2002, we introduced a new shipping option at , offering free shipping for certain orders of $99 or more. We offer or may offer a similar shipping option for our internationally-focused Web sites. The effect of these shipping
offers will reduce shipping revenue as a percentage of sales, and will negatively affect gross margins on our retail sales. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs represent those costs incurred in operating and staffing our fulfillment and
customer service centers, including costs attributable to receiving, inspecting and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging and preparing customers' orders for shipment; credit card fees and bad debt costs; and responding to inquiries from
customers. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid to third-party co-sourcers who assist us in fulfillment and customer service operations. Certain fulfillment-related costs incurred on behalf of third-party sellers, excluding those costs
associated with Syndicated Stores, are classified as cost of sales rather than fulfillment. Fulfillment costs were $90 million and $98 million for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, representing 11% and 14% of net sales
for the corresponding periods. Excluding net sales from our Services segment, fulfillment costs represent 11% and 15% of net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The improvement in fulfillment costs as a percentage
of net sales in comparison to the prior year period results from improvements in productivity, the increase in units fulfilled helping to leverage our fixed-cost base, a decline in customer service contacts resulting from improvements in our
operations and enhancements to our customer self-service features available on our Web sites, improvements in transportation management, and the closure of our fulfillment centers in McDonough, Georgia and Seattle, Washington, and customer service
centers in The Hague, Netherlands and Seattle, Washington. Marketing Marketing expenses consist of advertising, promotional and public relations expenditures, and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in
marketing and selling activities. Marketing expenses, net of co-
20
Table of Contents
operative marketing reimbursements, were $32 million and $37 million, representing 4% and 5% of net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Declines in expense for
marketing-related activities in comparison to the prior year period reflects management efforts to target advertising spending in channels considered most effective at driving incremental net sales (such as targeted on-line advertising through
various Web portals and our Associates Program), and an increase in co-operative marketing allowances. In January 2002, we introduced a new shipping option at , offering free shipping for certain orders of $99 or more. We offer
or may offer a similar shipping option for our internationally-focused Web sites. Although marketing expenses do not include our free and reduced shipping offers, we view such offers as an effective marketing tool. Technology and Content Technology and content expenses consist principally of payroll and related expenses for development, editorial, systems and telecommunications operations personnel and consultants; systems and telecommunications infrastructure; and costs of
acquired content, including freelance reviews. Technology and content expense was $55 million and $70 million for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, representing 7% and 10% of net sales for the corresponding periods,
respectively. The decline in absolute dollars spent during the three months ended March 31, 2002 in comparison with the same period in the prior year primarily reflects our migration to a technology platform that utilizes a less-costly technology
infrastructure, as well as improved expense management and general price reductions in most expense categories. We expect to continue to invest in technology and improvements in our Web sites during the remainder of 2002, which may include, but is
not limited to, offering additional Web site features and product categories to our customers and implementing additional strategic alliances, as well as potentially continuing our international expansion. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of payroll and related expenses for executive, finance and administrative personnel, recruiting, professional fees and other general corporate expenses. General and administrative expenses were
$21 million and $26 million for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, representing 2% and 4% of net sales for the corresponding periods, respectively. The decline in absolute dollars of general and administrative costs is
attributable to our operational restructuring plan announced in January 2001, which reduced the number of positions in corporate and administrative roles and consolidated our corporate office locations, as well as continued efforts to improve
efficiency. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation includes stock-based charges resulting from variable accounting treatment of certain stock options, option-related deferred compensation recorded at our initial
public offering, as well as certain other compensation and severance arrangements. Stock-based compensation also includes the portion of acquisition-related consideration conditioned on the continued tenure of key employees of certain acquired
businesses, which must be classified as compensation expense rather than as a component of purchase price under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Stock-based compensation was $11 million and $3 million for the three
months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The increase in stock-based compensation during the current-year period relates to stock-based charges resulting from variable accounting treatment, which during the three months ended March 31,
2002 was $9 million. As the quoted price of our common stock at March 31, 2001 did not exceed the exercise price of any options subject to variable accounting treatment, no variable-accounting related charge was incurred during the three months
ended March 31, 2001. The number of shares of common stock subject to outstanding vested and unvested employee stock options
was approximately 62 million and 66 million, or 17% and 18% of our outstanding common stock, at March 31, 2002 and December 31, 2001, respectively.
21
Table of Contents
The following table shows the amount of stock-based compensation that would have been
classified under the following categories had stock-based compensation not been separately stated on the statements of operations (in thousands).
Variable accounting treatment will result in unpredictable and potentially
significant charges or credits recorded to "Stock-based compensation," dependent on fluctuations in quoted prices for our common stock. We have quantified the hypothetical effect on "Stock-based compensation" associated with
increases in the quoted price of our common stock using a sensitivity analysis for our outstanding stock options subject to variable accounting at March 31, 2002. We have provided this information to provide additional insight into the potential
volatility we may experience in the future in our results of operations to the extent that the quoted price for our common stock rises above $13.375. This sensitivity analysis is not a prediction of future performance of the quoted prices of our
common stock. Using the following hypothetical increases in the market price of our common stock above $13.375, our hypothetical cumulative compensation expense at March 31, 2002 resulting from variable-accounting treatment would have been as
follows:
Actual variable-accounting related compensation could differ significantly from
the above illustration in instances where large volumes of options are exercised during a period at prices that differ from the closing stock price for the reporting period. If at the end of any fiscal quarter the quoted price of our common stock is lower than the quoted price at the end of the previous fiscal quarter, or to the extent previously-recorded
amounts relate to unvested portions of options that were cancelled, compensation expense associated with variable accounting will be recalculated using the cumulative expense method and may result in a net benefit to our results of operations.
Amortization of Goodwill and Other Intangibles Amortization of goodwill and other intangibles was $2 million and $51 million for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The decline in amortization of goodwill
and intangibles primarily results from our adoption of SFAS No. 141, which resulted in $25 million of intangible assets being subsumed into goodwill, and our adoption of SFAS No. 142, which requires that goodwill no longer be amortized.
Restructuring-Related and Other Restructuring-related and other expenses were $10 million and $114 million for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. In the first quarter of 2001, we announced
and began implementation of
22
Table of Contents
our operational restructuring plan to reduce operating costs, streamline our organizational structure, and consolidate certain of our fulfillment and customer service operations. This initiative
involved the reduction of employee staff by 1,327 positions throughout the Company in managerial, professional, clerical, technical and fulfillment roles; consolidation of our Seattle, Washington corporate office locations; closure of our McDonough,
Georgia fulfillment center; seasonal operation of our Seattle, Washington fulfillment center; closure of our customer service centers in Seattle, Washington and The Hague, Netherlands; and migration of a large portion of our technology
infrastructure to a new operating platform, which entails ongoing lease obligations for technology infrastructure no longer being utilized. Each component of the restructuring plan has been substantially completed. Actual termination benefits paid
were $12 million. During the first quarter 2002 we permanently closed our fulfillment center in Seattle. Additionally, we
revised our sublease income estimates for Seattle area restructured office space. These items resulted in additional restructuring-related expenses of $10 million primarily associated with ongoing lease obligations. Restructuring-related charges were as follows (in thousands):
At March 31, 2002, the accrued liability associated with restructuring-related
and other charges was $58 million and consisted of the following (in thousands):
Cash payments resulting from our operational restructuring during the three
months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001 were $14 million and $10 million, respectively. We anticipate the restructuring charges will result in the following net cash outflows (in thousands):
23
Table of Contents
Income (Loss) from Operations Our results from operations was income of $2 million and loss of $217 million during the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The improvement in operating results in
comparison with the prior year period was attributable to an increase in gross profit; a reduction in certain operating costs including fulfillment, marketing, technology and content, and general and administrative; declines in restructuring-related
charges; as well as a decline in amortization of goodwill and other intangibles primarily due to the adoption of SFAS No. 142. Although we reported operating income of $2 million for the first quarter of 2002, we believe that this positive operating
result is not predictive of future results or trends and should not be viewed as a material positive event for a variety of reasons. For example, we continue to be unable to forecast the effect on our future reported results associated with variable
accounting treatment on certain of our employee stock options. Net Interest Expense and Other Net interest expense and other, excluding "Other gains (losses), net," was $29 million and $28 million for the three months ended March 31,
2002 and 2001, respectively. Interest income was $6 million and $10 million, and interest expense was $35 million and $34 million for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. "Other income (expense), net" consisting
primarily of realized gains and losses on sales of marketable securities, miscellaneous state and foreign taxes and certain realized foreign-currency related transactional gains and losses, was income of $0.1 million and loss of $4 million for the
three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Interest income relates primarily to interest earned on fixed income securities and correlates with the average balance of those investments and prevailing interest rates. Interest expense is
primarily related to our 6.875% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2010 ("6.875% PEACS"), 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2009 ("4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes"), and our 10% Senior Discount Notes due 2008
("Senior Discount Notes"). At March 31, 2002, our total long-term indebtedness was $2.15 billion. Other Gains
(Losses), Net Other gains (losses), net resulted in gains of $6 million and $34 million for the three months ended
March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Other gains (losses), net consisted of the following (in thousands):
Currency gains and losses arising from the remeasurement of the 6.875%
PEACS' principal from Euros to U.S. dollars each period are recorded to "Other gains (losses), net," which resulted in gains of $6 million and $46 million for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and March 31, 2001,
respectively. During the three months ended March 31, 2001, we terminated our commercial agreement with Kozmo.com and recorded
a non-cash gain of $22 million, representing the amount of unearned revenue associated with the contract. Since services had not yet been performed under the contract, no amounts associated with this commercial agreement were recognized in "Net
sales" during any period.
24
Table of Contents
We hold strategic investments in warrants to purchase equity securities of other companies.
Warrants that can be exercised and settled by delivery of net shares such that we pay no cash upon exercise are deemed derivative financial instruments under the provisions of SFAS No. 133. Such warrants are not designated as hedging instruments;
accordingly, gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value are recognized on the consolidated statements of operations in the period of change. Equity in Losses of Equity-Method Investees Equity in losses of equity-method investees
represents our share of losses of companies in which we have investments that give us the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over an investee. This influence is generally defined as an ownership interest of the voting stock
of the investee of between 20% and 50%, although other factors, such as representation on our investee's Board of Directors and the effect of commercial arrangements, are considered in determining whether the equity method of accounting is
appropriate. Equity-method losses were $2 million and $13 million for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Equity-method losses declined during the three months ended March 31, 2002 in comparison with the comparable prior
year period because past equity-method losses have reduced many of our underlying investment balances until the recorded basis was zero. Our basis in equity-method investments was $9 million and $10 million at March 31, 2002 and December 31, 2001,
respectively. As equity-method losses are only recorded until the underlying investments are reduced to zero, we expect, absent additional investments, equity-method losses to continue to decline. Income Taxes We
provided for current and deferred income taxes in state and foreign jurisdictions where our subsidiaries produce taxable income. As of March 31, 2002, we have a net deferred tax asset of $2 million, which consists primarily of state net operating
losses. We have provided a full valuation allowance against the remaining portion of our deferred tax asset, consisting primarily of net operating losses, because of uncertainty regarding its future realization. Net Loss Net loss was
$23 million and $234 million for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The improvement in net loss in comparison with the prior year period are attributable to improvements in our results from operations, offset by a decline
in "Other gains (losses), net." We continue to be unable to forecast the effect on our future reported results of certain items, including the gain or loss associated with our 6.875% PEACS that will result from fluctuations in foreign
exchange rates, and the effect on our results associated with variable accounting treatment on certain of our employee stock options. Pro Forma Results of Operations We provide certain pro forma information regarding our results from operations,
which excludes the following line items on our Statements of Operations:
We also provide certain pro forma information regarding our net loss, which excludes, in addition to the line items described above, the following line items on our statements of operations:
25
Table of Contents
This pro forma information is not presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Pro forma results, which generally exclude non-operational, non-cash charges and benefits
as well as one-time charges, are provided as a complement to results provided in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Management uses such pro forma measures internally to evaluate the Company's
performance and manage its operations. The pro forma results are derived from information recorded in our financial statements. For information about our financial results, as reported in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States, see Item 1 of Part I, "Financial Statements (Unaudited)." The following is a reconciliation of our
pro forma results for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and 2001. Quarterly reconciliations are consistent with full-year presentation.
26
Table of Contents
For the quarter ending June 30, 2002, we expect our pro forma income from operations to be
between $5 million and $15 million. For the full year of 2002, we expect that our pro forma income from operations will be over $100 million. However, any such projections are subject to substantial uncertainty. See "Additional Factors
That May Affect Future Results." Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal source of liquidity is our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. Our cash and cash equivalents balance was $297 million and $540 million, and our marketable
securities balance was $449 million and $456 million at March 31, 2002 and December 31, 2001, respectively. The primary use of cash and cash equivalents during the three months ended March 31, 2002 was, among other things, associated with the
settlement of a majority of the accounts payable associated with our 2001 holiday season. Combined cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $745 million and $997 million at March 31, 2002 and December 31, 2001, respectively. Equity
securities of $13 million are included in "Marketable securities" at March 31, 2002, the value of which may fluctuate significantly. Equity securities of $13 million were included in "Marketable securities" at December 31, 2001.
As of March 31, 2002, our principal commitments consisted of long-term indebtedness totaling $2.15 billion related primarily to
our 6.875% PEACS, 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes and Senior Discount Notes; trade payables of $315 million; and accrued expenses and other liabilities of $233 million, which includes current restructuring-related obligations of $34 million.
Additionally, we are scheduled under certain of our long-term debt obligations to make periodic interest payments of $949 million, and are obligated under operating leases and commitments for advertising and promotional arrangements of $448 million.
We have pledged a portion of our marketable securities as collateral for standby letters of credit that guarantee certain of
our contractual obligations, a majority of which relates to property leases; the swap agreement that hedges the foreign-exchange rate risk on a portion of our 6.875% PEACS; and some of our real estate lease agreements. The amount of marketable
securities we are required to pledge pursuant to the swap agreement fluctuates with the fair market value of the swap obligation. The total amount of collateral pledged under these agreements was as follows (in thousands):
The following are our contractual commitments associated with our operational
restructuring, indebtedness, lease obligations, and our marketing agreements (in thousands):
27
Table of Contents
At March 31, 2002 we remain obligated under gross lease obligations of $110 million associated
with our operational restructuring and anticipate receiving sub-lease income of $60 million to offset these obligations. Net
cash used by operating activities consists of net loss offset by certain adjustments not affecting current-period cash flows, and the effect of changes in working capital. Adjustments to net income to determine cash flows from operations include
depreciation and amortization, equity in losses of investees, and other items not affecting cash flows in the current period. Net cash used by operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2002 was $241 million, resulting from our net
loss of $23 million and changes in working capital of $254 million, offset by adjustments not affecting first quarter 2002 cash flows of $36 million. Net cash used by operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2001 was $407
million, resulting from our net loss of $234 million and changes in working capital of $308 million, offset by adjustments not affecting first quarter 2001 cash flows of $135 million. Cash used in investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2002 was $3 million, consisting of purchases of fixed assets of $5 million, offset by net sales of marketable
securities of $2 million. Cash provided by investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2001 was $45 million, consisting of net sales of marketable securities of $64 million offset by purchases of fixed assets of $19 million.
Net cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2002 was $3 million, consisting primarily of
proceeds from exercises of stock options of $7 million, offset by repayments of long-term capital lease obligations of $5 million. Net cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2001 was $11 million, consisting
primarily of proceeds from exercises of stock options and leasing activities. We believe that current cash, cash equivalents
and marketable securities balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See
"Additional Factors that May Affect Future Results." We continually evaluate opportunities to sell additional equity or debt securities, obtain credit facilities from lenders, or restructure our long-term debt for strategic reasons or to
further strengthen our financial position. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. In addition, we will, from time to time, consider the acquisition of or investment in
complementary businesses, products, services and technologies, and the repurchase and retirement of debt, which might affect our liquidity requirements or cause us to issue additional equity or debt securities. There can be no assurance that
financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results
The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties
described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial
condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We Have an Accumulated Deficit and
May Incur Additional Losses We have incurred significant losses since we began doing business. As of March 31, 2002, we
had an accumulated deficit of $2.88 billion and our stockholders' equity was a deficit of $1.45 billion. We have incurred substantial operating losses since our inception and, notwithstanding our recent performance, we may continue to incur
such losses for the foreseeable future. We Have Significant Indebtedness As of March 31, 2002, we had total long-term indebtedness under our Senior Discount Notes, convertible notes, capitalized-lease obligations and other
asset financings of $2.15 billion. We make annual or semi-annual
28
Table of Contents
interest payments on the indebtedness under our two tranches of convertible notes, which are due in 2009 and 2010, respectively. Beginning in November 2003, we will begin to make semi-annual
interest payments on the indebtedness under our Senior Discount Notes. We may incur substantial additional debt in the future. Our indebtedness could limit our ability to obtain necessary additional financing for working capital, capital
expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes in the future; plan for, or react to, changes in technology and in our business and competition; and react in the event of an economic downturn. We may not be able to meet our debt service obligations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or obtain funds for required payments, or if
we fail to comply with covenants in our indebtedness, we will be in default. We Face Intense Competition
The e-commerce market segments in which we compete are relatively new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. In
addition, the market segments in which we participate are intensely competitive and we have many competitors in different industries, including the Internet and retail industries. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other
resources than we have. They may be able to secure merchandise from vendors on more favorable terms and may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Competitors in both the retail and e-commerce services industries also may be able to
devote more resources to technology development and marketing than us. Other companies in the retail and e-commerce service
industries may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. We also expect that competition in the e-commerce channel will intensify. As various Internet market segments obtain large, loyal customer
bases, participants in those segments may expand into the market segments in which we operate. In addition, new and expanded Web technologies may further intensify the competitive nature of online retail. The nature of the Internet as an electronic
marketplace facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping and renders it inherently more competitive than conventional retailing formats. This increased competition may reduce our sales and/or operating profits. Our Business Could Suffer if We Are Unsuccessful in Making and Integrating Strategic Alliances and Other Business Relationships
We may enter into strategic alliances and other business relationships with other companies through commercial
agreements, joint ventures, investments or business combinations. We have entered into third-party services agreements to provide services related to e-commerce to companies like Toysrus.com, Borders Group, America Online, Circuit City Stores, and
Target, and we plan to enter into similar agreements in the future. Under such agreements, we may perform services such as offering consumer products sold by us through Syndicated Stores; allowing third parties to utilize our technology services
such as search, browse and personalization; permitting third parties to offer products or services through our Web site; and powering third-party Web sites, providing fulfillment services, or both. These arrangements are complex and initially
require substantial personnel and resource commitments by us, which may constrain the number of such agreements we are able to enter into and may affect our ability to deliver services under the relevant agreements. If we fail to implement, maintain
and develop successfully the various components of such arrangements, which may include fulfillment, customer service, inventory management, tax collection, and third party licensing of software, hardware and content, our strategic alliance
initiatives may not be viable. The amount of compensation we receive under certain of these agreements is dependent on the volume of sales that the other company makes. Therefore if the third party Web site or product or services offering is not
successful, we may not receive all of the compensation we are otherwise due under the terms of the agreement. Moreover, we may not be able to succeed in our plans to enter into additional commercial relationships and strategic alliances on favorable
terms.
29
Table of Contents
In the past, we amended several of our agreements with certain of the companies with which we have formed strategic alliances to reduce future cash proceeds to be received by us, shortened the
term of our commercial agreements, or both. Our commercial agreements expire or otherwise terminate in almost every quarter in the current year, and although we intend to replace or renew these agreements, we may be unable to do so on comparable
terms or at all. Some of our agreements involve high margin services, such as marketing and promotional agreements, and as such agreements expire they may be replaced, if at all, by agreements involving lower margin services. In addition, several
past strategic alliances and agreements were with companies that experienced business failures and were unable to meet their obligations to us. We may in the future enter into further amendment of these agreements, or encounter third parties that
have difficulty meeting their contractual obligations to us, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition,
our present and future third-party services agreements, other commercial agreements, joint ventures, investments and business combinations create risks such as:
Our Investments and the Consideration We Receive under Certain Commercial Agreements May Subject Us to a Number of Risks In the past, we have entered into commercial agreements with other companies, including strategic alliances where we perform certain e-commerce services, and in exchange for our services
we received cash, equity securities of these companies, and/or additional benefits, such as Web site traffic. The amount of compensation we receive under certain of these agreements is dependent on the volume of sales made by the other company. In
some cases, we have also made separate investments in the other company by making a cash payment in exchange for equity securities of that company. We may in the future make additional investments in companies with which we have already formed
strategic alliances or companies with which we form new strategic alliances or similar arrangements. To the extent we have received equity securities as compensation, fluctuations in the value of such securities will affect our ultimate realization
of amounts we have received as compensation for services. In the past, we amended several of our strategic alliance agreements
to reduce future cash proceeds to be received by us, shorten the term of our commercial agreements, or both. We may in the future enter into further amendments of our commercial agreements. Although these amendments did not affect the amount of
unearned revenue previously recorded by us (if any), the timing of revenue recognition of these recorded unearned amounts has been changed to correspond with the terms of the amended agreements. To the extent we believe any such amendments cause or
may cause the compensation to be received under an agreement to no longer be fixed or determinable, we limit our revenue recognition to amounts received, excluding any future amounts not deemed fixed or determinable. As future amounts are
subsequently received, such amounts are incorporated into our revenue recognition over the remaining term of the agreement. We
hold several investments in third parties, primarily investments in companies in the Internet and e-commerce industries with which we have formed strategic alliances, that are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method, we are
required to record our ownership percentage of the income or loss of these companies as income or loss for us. We record these amounts generally one month in arrears for private
30
Table of Contents
companies and three months in arrears for public companies. The losses we are required to record under the equity method with respect to a particular investment are limited to the carrying value
of that investment, which, as of March 31, 2002, totaled $9 million for all of our equity-method investments. The companies in which we have equity method investments are likely to experience large losses for the foreseeable future and may or may
not be ultimately successful. Accordingly, we expect to record additional equity method losses in the future. Our investments
in equity securities that are not accounted for under the equity method are included in "Marketable securities" and "Other equity investments" on our balance sheets. We regularly review all of our investments in public and
private companies for other-than-temporary declines in fair value. When we determine that the decline in fair value of an investment below our accounting basis is other-than-temporary, we reduce the carrying value of the securities we hold and
record a loss in the amount of any such decline. In recent quarters, securities of companies in the Internet and e-commerce industries have experienced significant difficulties. We may conclude in future quarters that the fair values of other of
these investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline. As of March 31, 2002, our recorded basis in equity securities was $38 million, including $13 million classified as "Marketable securities," $9 million classified as
"Investments in equity-method investees," and $17 million classified as "Other equity investments." The Seasonality of Our Business Places Increased Strain on Our Business We expect a disproportionate
amount of our net sales to be realized during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. If we do not stock popular products in sufficient amounts and fail to meet customer demand, it could significantly affect our revenue and our future growth. If we
overstock products, we may be required to take significant inventory markdowns or write-offs, which could reduce gross profits. A failure to optimize inventory in our fulfillment network will harm our shipping margins by requiring us to make partial
shipments from one or more locations. In addition, we may experience a decline in our shipping margins due to complimentary upgrades, split-shipments and additional long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely delivery especially for the holiday
season. If too many customers access our Web sites within a short period of time due to increased holiday or other demand, we may experience system interruptions that make our Web sites unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders,
which may reduce the volume of goods we sell and the attractiveness of our products and services. In addition, we may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment centers during these peak periods and third parties that provide fulfillment services
to our customers may be unable to meet the seasonal demand. Finally, we, along with our customer service outsourcers, may be unable to adequately staff customer service centers. We generally have payment terms with our vendors that extend beyond the amount of time necessary to collect proceeds from our customers. As a result of holiday sales, at December 31 of
each year, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance reaches its highest level (other than as a result of cash flows provided by investing and financing activities). This operating cycle results in a corresponding increase in
accounts payable. Our accounts payable balance will decline during the first three months following year-end and will result in a decline in the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities on hand. We May Experience Significant Fluctuations in Our Operating Results and Rate of Growth Due to our limited operating history, our evolving business model and the unpredictability of our industry, we may not be able to accurately forecast
our rate of growth. We base our current and future expense levels and our investment plans on estimates of future net sales and rate of growth. Our expenses and investments are to a large extent fixed. We may not be able to adjust our spending
quickly if our net sales fall short of our expectations. Our revenue and operating profit growth depends on the continued
growth of online demand for the products offered by us or our third party sellers, and our business is affected by general economic and business conditions throughout the world. A softening of demand, whether caused by changes in consumer
preferences or
31
Table of Contents
a weakening of the U.S. or global economies, may result in decreased revenue or growth. Recent terrorist attacks upon the U.S. have added economic and consumer uncertainty that could adversely
affect our revenue or growth. Security concerns could create delays in and increase the cost of product shipments to and from us, which may decrease demand. Revenue growth may not be sustainable and our company-wide percentage growth rate may
decrease in the future. Our net sales and operating results will also fluctuate for many other reasons, including:
Finally, both seasonal fluctuations
in Internet usage and traditional retail seasonality are likely to affect our business. Internet usage generally slows during the summer months, and sales in almost all of our product groups, particularly toys and electronics, usually increase
significantly in the fourth calendar quarter of each year. We Have Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk
We may be adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate risk. Our 6.875% PEACS are denominated in Euros, not
U.S. dollars, and the exchange ratio between the Euro and the U.S. dollar is not fixed by the indenture governing the 6.875% PEACS. When we periodically remeasure the principal of the 6.875% PEACS based on fluctuations in the Euro/U.S. dollar
exchange ratio, we will record non-cash gains or losses in "Other gains (losses), net" on our statements of operations. Furthermore, we have invested some of the proceeds from the 6.875% PEACS in Euro-denominated cash equivalents and
marketable securities. Accordingly, as the U.S. dollar strengthens compared to the Euro, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances, when translated, may be materially less than expected and vice versa. In addition, the results of operations of our internationally-focused Web sites are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations as the
financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the
32
Table of Contents
local currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. As exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results, when translated, may differ materially from expectations.
Our Past and Planned Future Growth Will Place a Significant Strain on our Management, Operational and Financial Resources
We have rapidly and significantly expanded our operations and will endeavor to expand further to pursue growth of our
product and service offerings and customer base. Such growth will continue to place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. We also need to train and manage our employee base. Our current and planned personnel,
systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support and effectively manage our future operations. We may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth. In addition, we do not expect to benefit in our newer market segments from the first-to-market advantage that we experienced in the online book channel.
Our gross profits in our newer business activities may be lower than in our older business activities. In addition, we may have limited or no experience in new product and service activities and our customers may not favorably receive our new
businesses. In addition, to the extent we pursue strategic alliances to facilitate new product or service activities, the alliances may not be successful. If any of this were to occur, it could damage our reputation and negatively affect revenue
growth. The Loss of Key Senior Management Personnel Could Negatively Affect Our Business We depend on the continued services and performance of our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Jeffrey P. Bezos, our President,
Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. We do not have "key person" life insurance policies. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. System Interruption and the Lack of Integration and Redundancy in Our Systems May Affect Our Sales Customer access to our Web sites directly affects the volume of goods we sell and thus affects our net sales. We experience occasional system
interruptions that make our Web sites unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce our net sales and the attractiveness of our products and services. To prevent system interruptions, we continually need to add
additional software and hardware, upgrade our systems and network infrastructure to accommodate both increased traffic on our Web sites and increased sales volume, and integrate our systems. Our computer and communications systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquakes, acts of war or
terrorism and similar events. We do not have backup systems or a formal disaster recovery plan, and we may have inadequate insurance coverage or insurance limits to compensate us for losses from a major interruption. Computer viruses, physical or
electronic break-ins and similar disruptions could cause system interruptions, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from providing services and accepting and fulfilling customer orders. If this were to occur, it could damage our
reputation and be expensive to remedy. We May Not Be Successful in Our Efforts to Expand into International Market
Segments We plan, over time, to continue to expand our reach in international market segments. We have relatively
little experience in purchasing, marketing and distributing products or services for these market segments and may not benefit from any first-to-market advantages. It is costly to establish international facilities and operations, promote our brand
internationally, and develop localized Web sites and stores and other systems. We may not succeed in these efforts. Our net sales from international market segments may not offset the expense of establishing and maintaining the related operations
and, therefore, these operations may never be profitable.
33
Table of Contents
Our international sales and related operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in
selling abroad, including, but not limited to, risks with respect to:
As the international e-commerce channel continues to grow, competition will likely intensify. Local companies may have a substantial competitive advantage because of their greater understanding of, and focus on, the
local customer, as well as their more established local brand name recognition. In addition, governments in foreign jurisdictions may regulate e-commerce or other online services in such areas as content, privacy, network security, copyright,
encryption, taxation or distribution. We may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth in international market segments. We Face Significant Inventory Risk Arising Out of Changes in Consumer Demand and Product Cycles We are exposed to significant inventory risks as a result of seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes in product cycles and changes in consumer tastes with respect to our
products. In order to be successful, we must accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking or under-stocking products. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory is ordered and the date of sale. In
addition, when we begin selling a new product, it is particularly difficult to forecast product demand accurately. A failure to optimize inventory within our fulfillment network will harm our shipping margins by requiring us to make split shipments
from one or more locations, complimentary upgrades, and additional long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely delivery. As a result of our agreements with Toysrus.com, Babiesrus.com, Target and other companies, these parties will identify, buy,
manage and bear the financial risk of inventory obsolescence for their corresponding stores and merchandise. As a result, if any of these parties fail to forecast product demand or optimize inventory, we would receive reduced service fees under the
agreements and our business and reputation could be harmed. The acquisition of certain types of inventory, or inventory from
certain sources, may require significant lead-time and prepayment, and such inventory may not be returnable. We carry a broad selection and significant inventory levels of certain products, such as consumer electronics, and we may be unable to sell
products in sufficient quantities or during the relevant selling seasons.
34
Table of Contents
Our ability to receive inbound inventory efficiently or ship completed orders to customers may
be negatively effected by dependence on a limited number of shipping companies, inclement weather, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, or acts of God. Any one of the factors set forth above may require us to mark down or write off inventory, which will adversely affect our operating results. If We Do Not Successfully Optimize and Operate Our Fulfillment Centers, Our Business Could Be Harmed If we do not successfully operate our fulfillment centers, it could significantly limit our ability to meet customer demand. Most of our fulfillment
centers are highly automated, and we have had limited experience with automated fulfillment centers. Because it is difficult to predict sales volume, we may not manage our facilities in an optimal way, which may result in excess or insufficient
inventory, warehousing, fulfillment and distribution capacity. We have closed our fulfillment centers in McDonough, Georgia and Seattle, Washington. In addition, third parties either drop-ship or otherwise fulfill an increasing portion of our
customers' orders, and we are increasingly reliant on the reliability, quality and future procurement of their services. Under some of our commercial agreements, we maintain the inventory of other companies in our fulfillment centers, thereby
increasing the complexity of tracking inventory in and operating our fulfillment centers. Our failure to properly handle such inventory or the inability or failure of these other companies to accurately forecast product demand would result in
unexpected costs and other harm to our business and reputation. We May Not Be Able to Adequately Protect Our Intellectual
Property Rights or May Be Accused of Infringing Intellectual Property Rights of Third Parties We regard our trademarks,
service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology and similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality
and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our proprietary rights. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our
products and services are made available online. We also may not be able to acquire or maintain appropriate domain names in all countries in which we do business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and
similar proprietary rights. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or diminish the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary
rights is inherently difficult, and we may not be able to determine the existence or extent of any such unauthorized use. The protection of our intellectual property may require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources.
Moreover, we cannot be certain that the steps we take to protect our intellectual property will adequately protect our rights or that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology or other intellectual
property rights. Third parties that license our proprietary rights may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary
rights or reputation. In addition, the steps we take to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate and third parties may infringe or misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks, trade dress, patents and similar proprietary rights. Other
parties may claim that we infringed their proprietary rights. We have been subject to, and expect to continue to be subject to, claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement by us of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual
property rights of third parties. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, may result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against us or the imposition of damages that we must pay. We may need to obtain
licenses from third parties who allege that we have infringed their rights, but such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, we may not be able to obtain or utilize on terms which are favorable to us, or at
all, licenses or other rights with respect to intellectual property we do not own in providing e-commerce services to third party sellers or other companies under commercial agreements.
35
Table of Contents
We Have a Limited Operating History and Our Stock Price Is Highly Volatile
We have a relatively short operating history and, as an e-commerce company, we have a rapidly evolving and
unpredictable business model. The trading price of our common stock fluctuates significantly. Trading prices of our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as:
Any of these events may cause our stock price to rise or fall, and may adversely affect our
business and financing opportunities. Future volatility in our stock price could force us to increase our cash compensation to
employees or grant larger stock option awards than we have historically, which could hurt our operating results or reduce the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders, or both. In the first quarter of 2001, we offered a limited
non-compulsory exchange of employee stock options. This option exchange offer results in variable accounting treatment for stock options representing, at March 31, 2002, approximately 11 million shares of our common stock. Variable accounting
treatment will result in unpredictable stock-based compensation expense dependent on fluctuations in quoted prices for our common stock. Government Regulation of the Internet and E-commerce Is Evolving and Unfavorable Changes Could Harm our Business We are subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Such existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other online
services. These regulations may cover taxation, user privacy, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services and the characteristics and quality of products and
services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce. Unfavorable resolution of these issues may harm our business. In
addition, many jurisdictions currently regulate "auctions" and "auctioneers" and may regulate online auction services. Jurisdictions may also regulate consumer-to-consumer fixed price online markets, like zShops. This could, in
turn, diminish the demand for our products and services and increase our cost of doing business.
36
Table of Contents
We May Be Subject to Liability for Past Sales and Our Future Sales May Decrease
In accordance with current industry practice, we do not collect sales taxes or other taxes with respect to shipments of
most of our goods into states other than Washington and North Dakota. Under some of our strategic alliance agreements, the other company is the seller of record of the applicable merchandise and we are obligated to collect sales tax in most states
in accordance with that company's instructions. We may enter into additional strategic alliances requiring similar tax collection obligations. We collect Value Added Tax, or VAT, for products that are ordered on ,
and and delivered in European Union member countries. We also collect Japanese consumption tax for products that are ordered on and delivered in Japan. Our fulfillment center and
customer service center networks, and any future expansion of those networks, along with other aspects of our evolving business, may result in additional sales and other tax obligations. One or more states or foreign countries may seek to impose
sales or other tax collection obligations on out-of-jurisdiction companies which engage in e-commerce. A successful assertion by one or more states or foreign countries that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of merchandise could
result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability to compete with traditional retailers, and otherwise harm our business. Currently, decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect to sales made over the Internet. However, a number of states, as well
as the U.S. Congress, have been considering various initiatives that could limit or supersede the Supreme Court's position regarding sales and use taxes on Internet sales. If any of these initiatives addressed the Supreme Court's
constitutional concerns and resulted in a reversal of its current position, we could be required to collect sales and use taxes in states other than Washington and North Dakota. The imposition by state and local governments of various taxes upon
Internet commerce could create administrative burdens for us and could decrease our future sales. Various countries are
currently evaluating their VAT positions on e-commerce transactions. Recently, for example, the Council of Economic and Finance Ministers of the European Union agreed to a directive requiring that businesses in non-EU countries selling digital
products and services to EU resident consumers collect and remit VAT in the country of the consumer's residence. If this directive is ratified by the EU Council of Ministers, it would become effective on July 1, 2003. It is possible that this
and other future VAT legislation or changes to our business model may result in additional VAT collection obligations and administrative burdens. We Source a Significant Portion of Our Inventory from a Few Vendors Although we
continue to increase our direct purchasing from manufacturers, we still source a significant amount of inventory from relatively few vendors. During the three months ended March 31, 2002, approximately 22% of all inventory purchases were made from
two major vendors, of which Ingram Book Group accounts for over 10%. We do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with most of our vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms or the extension of credit
limits. Our current vendors may stop selling merchandise to us on acceptable terms. If that were the case, we may not be able to acquire merchandise from other suppliers in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms.
We May Be Subject to Product Liability Claims if People or Property Are Harmed by the Products We Sell Some of our products, such as toys, tools, hardware, computers, cell phones and kitchen and houseware products, may expose us to product liability
claims relating to personal injury, death or property damage caused by such products, and may require us to take actions such as product recalls. Companies with which we have formed strategic alliances also may sell products that may indirectly
increase our exposure to product liability claims. Although we maintain liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on
economically reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, some of our vendor agreements with our suppliers do not indemnify us from product liability.
37
Table of Contents
We Could Be Liable for Breaches of Security on Our Web Site and Fraudulent Activities of
Users of Our Amazon Payments Program A fundamental requirement for e-commerce is the secure transmission of
confidential information over public networks. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect consumer information and prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches, failure to mitigate such
fraud or breaches may adversely affect our operating results. The law relating to the liability of providers of online payment
services is currently unsettled. In addition, we are aware that governmental agencies are currently investigating the provision of online payment services and could require changes in the way we conduct this business. We guarantee payments made
through Amazon Payments up to certain limits for both buyers and sellers, and we may be unable to prevent users of Amazon Payments from fraudulently receiving goods when payment may not be made to a seller or fraudulently collecting payments when
goods may not be shipped to a buyer. Our liability risk will increase as a larger fraction of our sellers use Amazon Payments. Any costs we incur as a result of liability because of our guarantee of payments made through Amazon Payments or otherwise
could harm our business. In addition, the functionality of Amazon Payments depends on certain third-party vendors delivering services. If these vendors are unable or unwilling to provide services, Amazon Payments will not be viable (and our
businesses that use Amazon Payments may not be viable). We May Not Be Able to Adapt Quickly Enough to Changing Customer
Requirements and Industry Standards Technology in the e-commerce industry changes rapidly. We may not be able to adapt
quickly enough to changing customer requirements and preferences and industry standards. Competitors often introduce new products and services with new technologies. These changes and the emergence of new industry standards and practices could
render our existing Web sites and proprietary technology obsolete. The Internet as a Medium for Commerce Is Uncertain
Consumer use of the Internet as a medium for commerce is a recent phenomenon and is subject to a high level of
uncertainty. While the number of Internet users has been rising, the Internet infrastructure may not expand fast enough to meet the increased levels of demand. If use of the Internet as a medium for commerce does not continue to grow or grows at a
slower rate than we anticipate, our sales would be lower than expected and our business would be harmed. We Could Be
Liable for Unlawful or Fraudulent Activities by Users of Our Marketplace, Auctions and zShops Services We may be unable
to prevent users of our Amazon Marketplace, Auctions and zShops services from selling unlawful goods, or from selling goods in an unlawful manner. We may face civil or criminal liability for unlawful and fraudulent activities by our users under U.S.
laws and/or the laws and regulations of other countries. Any costs we incur as a result of liability relating to the sale of unlawful goods, the unlawful sale of goods, the fraudulent receipt of goods or the fraudulent collection of payments could
harm our business. In running our Amazon Marketplace, Auctions and zShops services, we rely on sellers of goods to make accurate representations and provide reliable delivery, and on buyers to pay the agreed purchase price. We do not take
responsibility for delivery of payment or goods and while we can suspend or terminate the accounts of users who fail to fulfill their delivery obligations to other users, we cannot require users to make payments or deliver goods. We do not
compensate users who believe they have been defrauded by other users except through our guarantee program. Under the guarantee program, fraudulent activities by our users, such as the fraudulent receipt of goods and the fraudulent collection of
payments, may create liability for us.
38
Table of Contents
Item 3.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure of Market Risk We are exposed to market risk for the effect
of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations and changes in the market values of our investments. Information
relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk is set forth below and in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations--Liquidity and Capital Resources."
Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. All of our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are designated as available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented at fair value on our balance sheets. We generally invest our excess cash in
A-rated or higher short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and money market mutual funds. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, and we may suffer losses in principal if
forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. At March 31, 2002, we have
long-term indebtedness of $2.15 billion primarily associated with our 6.875% PEACS, 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes and Senior Discount Notes, which are due in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our payment commitments associated with these
debt instruments are fixed during the corresponding terms and are comprised of interest payments, principal payments, or a combination thereof. The market value of our long-term debt will fluctuate with movements of interest rates, increasing in
periods of declining rates of interest, and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. Foreign Currency Exchange
Rate Risk Net sales from our internationally-focused Web sites (, , ,
and ) accounted for 27% and 21% of consolidated revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and the year ended December 31, 2001, respectively. Net sales generated from these Web sites, as well as most of the
related expenses incurred, are denominated in the functional currencies of the corresponding Web sites. The functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support , , , and
is the same as the local currency of the United Kingdom, Germany, France and Japan, respectively. Results of operations from our foreign subsidiaries and our subsidiaries that operate our internationally-focused Web sites are
exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. As exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results, when translated, may differ
materially from expectations. The effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on the results of operations of our internationally-focused Web sites for the three months ended March 31, 2002 and the year ended 2001 was not material.
At March 31, 2002, we were also exposed to foreign currency risk related to our 6.875% PEACS and Euro-denominated cash
equivalents and marketable securities ("Euro Investments"). The 6.875% PEACS have an outstanding principal balance of 690 million Euros ($602 million, based on the exchange rate as of March 31, 2002), and our Euro Investments, classified
as available-for-sale, had a balance of 160 million Euros ($140 million, based on the exchange rate as of March 31, 2002). As the Euro/U.S. dollar exchange ratio varies, the value of our Euro Investments, when translated, will fluctuate. Debt
principal of 615 million Euros is remeasured each period, which results in currency gains or losses that are recorded in "Other gains (losses), net" on our statements of operations. We hedge the exchange rate risk on debt principal of 75
million Euros and a portion of the interest payments using a cross-currency swap agreement. Under the swap agreement, we agreed to pay at
39
Table of Contents
inception and receive upon maturity 75 million Euros in exchange for receiving at inception and paying at maturity $67 million. In addition, we agreed to receive in February of each year 27
million Euros corresponding with interest payments on 390 million Euros of the 6.875% PEACS and, simultaneously, to pay $32 million. This agreement is cancelable, in whole or in part, at our option at no cost on or after February 20, 2003 if our
common stock price (converted into Euros) is greater than or equal to 84.883 Euros, the minimum conversion price of the 6.875% PEACS. We account for the swap agreement as a cash flow hedge of the risk of exchange rate fluctuations on the debt
principal and interest. Gains and losses on the swap agreement are initially recorded in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss" on our balance sheets and recognized in "Other gains (losses), net" on our statements of operations
upon the recognition of the corresponding currency losses and gains on the remeasurement of the 6.875% PEACS. Investment
Risk As of March 31, 2002, our carrying value in equity securities was $38 million, including $13 million classified as
"Marketable securities," $9 million classified as "Investments in equity-method investees," and $17 million classified as "Other equity investments." We invest in the stock and/or warrants of both private and
public companies primarily for strategic purposes. At March 31, 2002, our investments in securities of publicly-held companies was $15 million, and our investments in securities of privately-held companies was $24 million. We have also received
securities, including warrant investments, from some of the companies with which we have formed strategic alliances in exchange for services provided by us to those companies. Our investments are accounted for under the equity method if we have the
ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over an investee. Some of our cost-method investments are in private companies and are accounted for at cost and others are in public companies and are accounted for as available-for-sale
securities and recorded at fair value. Warrant investments are generally carried at fair value. We regularly review the carrying value of our investments and identify and record losses when events and circumstances indicate that such declines in the
fair value of such assets below our carrying value are other-than-temporary. During the three months ended March 31, 2002 and the year ended 2001, we recorded impairment losses totaling $0.1 million and $44 million, respectively, to write-down
certain of our equity securities to fair value. All of these investments are in companies involved in the Internet and e-commerce industries and their fair values are subject to significant fluctuations due to volatility of the stock market and
changes in general economic conditions. Based on the fair value of the publicly-traded equity securities we held at March 31, 2002, an assumed 15%, 30% or 50% adverse change to market prices of these securities would result in a corresponding
decline in total fair value of approximately $7 million, $14 million or $24 million, respectively.
40
Table of Contents
PART II. OTHER INFORMATION Item 1.
Legal Proceedings As previously disclosed, we have received informal inquiries from the
staff of the SEC with respect to the accounting treatment and disclosures for some of our initial strategic alliances and have been cooperating with the SEC staff in responding to those inquiries. We reviewed our accounting treatment for the
transactions with our independent auditors and the SEC staff, and we believe our accounting treatment and disclosures were appropriate. The SEC has notified us that it believes that the other party to one such transaction, Ashford.com, improperly
reported the resolution of a business dispute with us and that the Company may have allowed such conduct. The SEC has not made a final determination whether an administrative cease-and-desist proceeding should be initiated. We believe our actions at
all times were proper and that this matter will not affect our results of operations or financial condition. On April 12, 2001,
we received a request from the SEC staff for the voluntary production of documents and information concerning, among other things, previously reported sales of our common stock by our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey Bezos, on February
2 and 5, 2001. We are cooperating with the SEC staff's continuing inquiry. A number of purported class action complaints
were filed by holders of our equity and debt securities against us, our directors and certain of our senior officers during 2001, in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington, alleging violations of the Securities Act
of 1933 (the "1933 Act") and/or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "1934 Act"). On October 5, 2001, plaintiffs in the 1934 Act cases filed a consolidated amended complaint alleging that we, together with certain of our
officers and directors and certain third-parties, made false or misleading statements during the period from October 29, 1998 through July 23, 2001 concerning our business, financial condition and results, inventories, future prospects, and
strategic alliance transactions. The 1933 Act complaint alleges that the defendants made false or misleading statements in connection with our February 2000 offering of the 6.875% PEACS. The complaints seek recissionary and/or compensatory damages
and injunctive relief against all defendants. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing in these complaints and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in these matters. Depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could materially affect our business, future results of operations, financial position
or cash flows in a particular period. From time to time, we are subject to other legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary
course of business, including claims of alleged infringement of trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights. We currently are not aware of any such legal proceedings or claims that we believe will have, individually or in
the aggregate, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. Item 2.
Changes in Securities and Use of Proceeds None Item 3.
Defaults Upon Senior Securities None. Item 4.
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders None Item 5.
Other Information None
41
Table of Contents
Item 6.
Exhibits and Reports on Form 8-K (a) Exhibits
(b) Reports on Form 8-K On March 6, 2002, the Company filed an 8-K under Item 5 announcing Warren Jenson, the Company's Chief Financial Officer, will resign later this
year.
42
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 23, 2002
43
Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX