.
3
AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (in thousands, except per share data) (Unaudited)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
4
AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (in thousands) (Unaudited)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
5
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Unaudited) September 30, 2001 Note 1. Accounting Policies
The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared by Amazon.com, Inc. ("Amazon.com" or the
"Company") pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for interim financial reporting. These consolidated financial statements are unaudited and, in the opinion of management,
include all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments and accruals, as well as the accounting change to adopt Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities," necessary for a fair presentation of the consolidated balance sheets, operating results, and cash flows for the periods presented. Operating results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2001 are not necessarily
indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending December 31, 2001 due to seasonal and other factors. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States have been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements
and accompanying notes, included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000. Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.
The number of shares used in calculating loss per share for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000 was reduced by 1 million and 2
million, respectively, and the number of shares used in calculating loss per share for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000 was reduced by 1 million and 4 million, respectively. Such reductions reflect the weighted average number of
outstanding shares subject to repurchase or forfeiture for the corresponding periods. The effect of outstanding stock options is antidilutive and, accordingly, is excluded from diluted loss per share.
Amounts billed to customers for outbound shipping charges are included in net sales and were $74 million and $78 million for the three months ended
September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and $232 million and $226 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively.
On July 23, 2001, America Online made a $100 million investment in Amazon.com common stock. The common stock was priced at $12.14
per share, which resulted in the issuance of 8.2 million shares. The common stock was sold under a registration statement that the Company previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Effective January 1, 2001, the Company adopted SFAS No. 133, which requires that all derivative instruments be recorded on the
balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded each period in current results of operations or other comprehensive income (loss) depending on whether a
6
derivative is designated as part of a hedge transaction and, if it is, the type of hedge transaction. For a derivative designated as a fair value hedge, the gain or loss of the derivative in the
period of change and the offsetting loss or gain of the hedged item attributed to the hedged risk are recognized in results of operations. For a derivative designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the derivative's gain or loss
is initially reported as a component of other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently reclassified into results of operations when the hedged exposure affects results of operations. The ineffective portion of the gain or loss of a cash flow
hedge is recognized immediately in results of operations. For a derivative not designated as a hedging instrument, the gain or loss is recognized currently in results of operations. In February 2000, the Company completed an offering of 690 million Euros of 6.875%
Euro-denominated Convertible Subordinated Notes due February 16, 2010 (referred to as "PEACS"). The Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge the risk of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the
Euro associated with a portion of its PEACS. Specifically, the Company has designated a cross-currency swap agreement as a cash flow hedge of the foreign exchange rate risk on a portion of the PEACS. Under the swap agreement, the Company agreed to
pay at inception and receive upon maturity 75 million Euros in exchange for receiving at inception and paying at maturity $67 million. In addition, the Company agreed to receive in February of each year 27 million Euros corresponding with interest
payments on 390 million Euros in principal of the PEACS and, simultaneously, to pay $32 million. This agreement is cancelable, in whole or in part, at the Company's option at no cost on or after February 20, 2003 if the Company's common
stock price is greater than or equal to 84.883 Euros, the conversion price of the PEACS. Each period, a portion of the swap gain or loss included in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss" is reclassified to the statement of operations,
"Other gains (losses), net," to offset the foreign currency loss or gain attributable to remeasurement of the hedged portion of the PEACS. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2001, a currency swap gain of $5 million and a
loss of $2 million, respectively, were reclassified to offset a $5 million currency loss and a $2 million currency gain on the PEACS, respectively. The terms of the swap contract have been structured to match the terms of the hedged portion of the
PEACS. This hedge resulted in no ineffectiveness; accordingly, no net gain or loss was recorded during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2001. The Company also designated forward purchase agreements as cash flow hedges of the foreign exchange rate risk on a portion of the
PEACS's interest payment paid on February 16, 2001. Under the forward purchase agreements, the Company agreed to pay $18 million and receive 21 million Euros. The impact on results of operations, relating to forward purchase agreements for the
nine months ended September 30, 2001, was not significant. There was no activity related to forward purchase agreements during the three months ended September 30, 2001. The Company holds strategic investments in warrants to purchase equity securities of other companies. Warrants that can be
exercised and settled by delivery of net shares such that the Company pays no cash upon exercise ("net share warrants") are deemed derivative financial instruments. Net share warrants are not designated as hedging instruments; accordingly,
gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value are recognized in the statement of operations, "Other gains (losses), net," in the period of change. The Company determines the fair value of its warrants through option-pricing models
using current market price and volatility assumptions, including public-company market comparables for its private-company warrants. For the three and nine months ended September 30, 2001, net warrant losses recognized were $5 million and $4
million, respectively. The adoption of SFAS No. 133
on January 1, 2001 resulted in cumulative transition losses of $11 million included in the results of operations and a stockholders' deficit adjustment of $12 million. Transition losses included in "Cumulative effect of change in
accounting principle" are attributable to approximately $3 million in losses reclassified from "Accumulated other comprehensive loss" on warrants previously reported at fair value
7
and classified as available-for-sale, and approximately $8 million in losses on warrants previously reported at cost. No warrant investments are designated as hedging instruments. Transition
losses in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss" are attributable to approximately $15 million in losses on the swap agreement designated as a cash flow hedge of a portion of the PEACS offset by the approximately $3 million in losses
reclassified to results of operations on derivative instruments not designated as hedging instruments. Effective January 1, 2001, currency gains and losses arising from the remeasurement of the PEACS's principal from Euros to U.S. dollars each period are recorded to "Other
gains (losses), net." Prior to January 1, 2001, PEACS's principal of 615 million Euros was designated as a hedge of an equivalent amount of Euro-denominated investments classified as available-for-sale; accordingly, currency gains and
losses on the PEACS were recorded to "Accumulated other comprehensive loss" as hedging offsets to currency gains and losses on the Euro-denominated investments. As the hedge does not qualify for hedge accounting under the provisions of
SFAS 133, commencing January 1, 2001, the foreign currency change resulting from the portion of the PEACS previously hedging the available-for-sale securities is now being recorded in the statements of operations. Remeasurement of the PEACS's principal resulted in a loss of $40 million and a gain of $29 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2001, respectively.
In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations" and SFAS No.
142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." SFAS No. 141 requires business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001 to be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, and broadens the criteria for recording intangible assets
separate from goodwill. Recorded goodwill and intangibles will be evaluated against this new criteria and may result in certain intangibles being subsumed into goodwill, or alternatively, amounts initially recorded as goodwill may be separately
identified and recognized apart from goodwill. SFAS No. 142 requires the use of a nonamortization approach to account for purchased goodwill and certain intangibles. Under a nonamortization approach, goodwill and certain intangibles will not be
amortized into results of operations, but instead would be reviewed for impairment and written down and charged to results of operations only in the periods in which the recorded value of goodwill and certain intangibles is more than its fair value.
The provisions of each statement that apply to goodwill and intangible assets acquired prior to June 30, 2001 will be adopted by the Company on January 1, 2002. The Company expects the adoption of these accounting standards will result in certain of
our intangibles being subsumed into goodwill and will have the impact of reducing amortization of goodwill and intangibles commencing January 1, 2002; however, impairment reviews may result in future periodic write-downs. The FASB also recently issued SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets," that is applicable to financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. The FASB's new rules on asset impairment supersede FASB Statement 121, "Accounting for
the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of," and portions of APB Opinion 30, "Reporting the Results of Operations." This Standard provides a single accounting model for long-lived assets to be
disposed of and significantly changes the criteria that would have to be met to classify an asset as held-for-sale. Classification as held-for-sale is an important distinction since such assets are not depreciated and are stated at the lower of fair
value and carrying amount. This Standard also requires expected future operating losses from discontinued operations to be displayed in the period(s) in which the losses are incurred, rather than as of the measurement date as presently required. The
provisions of this Standard are not expected to have a significant effect on the Company's financial position or operating results.
8
Note 2. Marketable Securities
Marketable securities, at fair value, consist
of the following (in thousands):
Note 3. Fixed Assets
Fixed assets, at cost, consist of the following (in thousands):
For the
three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, depreciation of fixed assets was $20 million and $23 million, respectively, which includes amortization of fixed assets acquired under capital lease obligations of $2 million and $3 million
respectively. For the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, depreciation of fixed assets was $64 million and $62 million, respectively, which includes amortization of fixed assets acquired under capital lease obligations of $7 million and
$8 million, respectively. Note 4. Unearned Revenue During the nine months ended September 30, 2001, activity in unearned
revenue was as follows (in thousands):
Note 5. Stock-Based Compensation
During the first quarter of 2001, the Company
offered a limited non-compulsory exchange of employee stock options. The exchange resulted in the voluntary cancellation of employee stock options to purchase 31 million shares of common stock with varying exercise prices in exchange for 12 million
employee stock options with an exercise price of $13.375. The option exchange offer resulted in variable accounting treatment
9
for, at the time of the exchange, approximately 15 million stock options, which includes options granted under the exchange offer and 3 million options, with a weighted average exercise price of
$52.41, that were subject to the exchange offer but were not exchanged. Variable accounting will continue until all options subject to variable accounting treatment are exercised, cancelled or expired. At September 30, 2001, approximately 13 million
shares remain under variable accounting treatment, which includes 11 million options granted under the exchange offer and 2 million options, with a weighted average exercise price of $46.70, that were subject to the exchange offer but were not
exchanged. Variable accounting treatment will result in unpredictable charges or credits, recorded to "Stock-based compensation," dependent on fluctuations in quoted prices for the Company's common stock. Stock-based compensation includes stock-based charges resulting from
variable accounting treatment, option-related deferred compensation recorded at the Company's initial public offering, as well as certain other compensation and severance arrangements. Stock-based compensation also includes the portion of
acquisition-related consideration conditioned on the continued tenure of key employees of certain acquired businesses, which must be classified as compensation expense rather than as a component of purchase price under accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States. Stock-based compensation was a contra-expense of $3 million and an expense of $4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and expenses of $3 million and $26 million for
the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The declines in stock-based compensation during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2001 resulted from the full vesting and corresponding full amortization of deferred
stock-based compensation by employees associated with certain acquired businesses and the reversal of variable accounting charges previously recorded as a result of declines in quoted prices for the Company's common stock. The stock-based
compensation related to variable accounting treatment was a contra-expense of $4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2001, reducing to zero the variable accounting charge for the nine months ended September 30, 2001.
During the three months ended September 30, 2001, the Company issued 26
million employee stock options, with a weighted average exercise price of $7.93, in connection with its annual performance-based option-grant program. These options are not subject to variable accounting treatment as they were issued at least six
months from the date the limited non-compulsory exchange concluded. The number of shares of common stock subject to outstanding vested and unvested employee stock options was approximately 67 million and 70 million, or 18% and 20% of the
Company's outstanding common stock at September 30, 2001 and December 31, 2000, respectively. The following table shows the amounts of stock-based compensation that would have been recorded under the following income statement categories had stock-based compensation not
been separately stated in the consolidated statements of operations (in thousands):
Note 6. Restructuring-Related and Other
Restructuring-related and other expenses were
$4 million and $12 million for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and $177 million and $16 million for the nine months ended
10
September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. In the first quarter of 2001, the Company announced and began implementation of its operational restructuring plan to reduce operating costs, streamline
its organizational structure, and consolidate certain of its fulfillment and customer service operations. As a result of this operational restructuring, the Company recorded restructuring and other charges of $114 million during the three months
ended March 31, 2001, and additional charges of $59 million and $4 million during the three months ended June 30, 2001 and September 30, 2001, respectively. This initiative involved the reduction of employee staff by approximately 1,300 positions
throughout the Company in managerial, professional, clerical, technical and fulfillment roles; consolidation of its Seattle, Washington corporate office locations; closure of its McDonough, Georgia fulfillment center; seasonal operation of its
Seattle, Washington fulfillment center; closure of its customer service centers in Seattle, Washington and The Hague, Netherlands; and migration of a large portion of its technology infrastructure to a Linux-based operating platform, which entails
ongoing lease obligations for technology infrastructure no longer being utilized. Each component of the restructuring plan has been substantially completed. As of September 30, 2001, 1,320 employees had been terminated, and actual termination
benefits paid were $11 million. Costs that relate
to ongoing operations are not part of restructuring charges and are not included in "Restructuring-related and other." In accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force 96-9, "Classification of Inventory Markdowns and Other Costs
Associated with a Restructuring," all inventory adjustments that may result from the closure or seasonal operation of our fulfillment centers are classified in "Cost of goods sold" on the consolidated statements of operations. As of
September 30, 2001, there have been no significant inventory write downs resulting from the restructuring, and none are anticipated. The charges associated with the restructuring were as follows (in thousands):
Asset
impairments primarily relate to the closure of the McDonough, Georgia fulfillment center, the write-off of leasehold improvements in vacated corporate office space, and the other-than-temporary decline in the fair value of assets in the Seattle,
Washington fulfillment center. For assets to be disposed of, the Company estimated the fair value based on expected salvage value less costs to sell. For assets held for continued use, the decline in fair value was measured using discounted
estimates of future cash flows. The Company is actively seeking third-party buyers for the assets held for disposal. Asset impairments recorded during the three months ended September 30, 2001 primarily relate to additional fulfillment-center
equipment identified as no longer in service as a result of the operational restructuring. Continuing lease obligations primarily relate to heavy equipment previously used in the McDonough, Georgia fulfillment center, vacated corporate office space, technology
infrastructure no longer being utilized, and the unutilized portion of our back-up data center. Where possible, the Company is actively seeking third parties to sub-lease abandoned equipment and facilities. Amounts expensed represent estimates of
undiscounted future cash outflows, offset by anticipated third-party sub-leases. Amounts expensed during the third quarter of 2001 primarily relate to revisions of cash flow estimates for corporate office facilities, and to a lesser extent,
technology infrastructure no longer being utilized. Termination benefits are comprised of severance-related payments for all employees to be terminated in connection with the operational restructuring, as well as $2.5 million of the
Company's common stock
11
contributed to a trust fund for the benefit of terminated employees. Termination benefits do not include any amounts for employment-related services prior to termination. Other restructuring
costs include professional fees, decommissioning costs of vacated facilities, broker commissions and other miscellaneous expenses directly attributable to the restructuring.
At September 30, 2001, the accrued liability associated with the restructuring-related and other charges was $71 million and
consisted of the following (in thousands):
Restructuring-related and other charges recorded during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2000 were primarily associated with asset impairments relating to computer and
fulfillment-center equipment to be disposed of, as well as certain acquisition-related expenses, such as bonuses paid to employees of acquired companies and other miscellaneous acquisition-related expenses. Note 7. Other Gains (Losses), Net
Other gains (losses), net were recorded for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2001 and resulted in net losses of
$64 million and $18 million, respectively. Other gains (losses), net consisted of the following (in thousands):
Effective
January 1, 2001, currency gains and losses arising from the remeasurement of the PEACS's principal from Euros to U.S. dollars each period are recorded to "Other gains (losses), net." Prior to January 1, 2001, PEACS's principal of
615 million Euros was designated as a hedge of an equivalent amount of Euro-denominated investments classified as available-for-sale; accordingly, currency gains and losses on the PEACS were recorded to "Accumulated other comprehensive
loss" as hedging offsets to currency gains and losses on the Euro-denominated investments. As the hedge does not qualify for hedge accounting under the provisions of SFAS 133, commencing January 1, 2001, the foreign currency change resulting
from the portion of the PEACS previously hedging the available-for-sale securities is now being recorded in the statements of operations. During the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2001, the remeasurement of the PEACS resulted in a
loss of $40 million and a gain of $29 million, respectively.
12
The Company also recorded impairment losses of $2 million and
$43 million for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2001, respectively, relating to other-than-temporary declines in the fair value of Webvan Group, Inc, Sotheby's Holdings, Inc., WeddingChannel.com, Inc. Ashford.com, Inc.,
Audible, Inc. and drugstore.com, inc. These impairments were recorded to reflect the investments at fair value. As of June 30, 2001, the Company's recorded basis in its investment in Webvan Group, Inc. was reduced to zero as Webvan Group, Inc.
ceased operations and filed for bankruptcy. The Company does not expect to recover any portion of its investment in Webvan Group, Inc. On February 5, 2001, the Company terminated its commercial agreement with Kozmo.com and recorded a non-cash gain of $22 million, representing the
amount of unearned revenue associated with the contract. Since services had not yet been performed under the contract, no amounts associated with this commercial agreement were recognized in "Net sales" during any period. Furthermore,
during 1999, the Company made a cash investment of $60 million to acquire preferred stock of Kozmo.com and accounted for its investment under the equity method of accounting. Pursuant to the equity method of accounting, the Company recorded its
share of Kozmo.com losses, which, during 2000, reduced its basis in the investment to zero. Accordingly, when Kozmo.com announced its intentions to cease operations on April 12, 2001, the Company did not have any further loss exposure relating to
its investment. The Company does not expect to recover any portion of its investment in Kozmo.com. Net gains of $12 million were recorded to Other gains (losses), net during the comparable periods in the prior year. Included in this amount was a $34 million loss associated with
other-than-temporary declines in the fair value of Audible, Inc. and Nextcard, Inc., a gain of $40 million relating to the acquisition of Homegrocer.com by Webvan Group, Inc., and a $6 million net gain relating to the bankruptcy of Living.com and
corresponding commercial contract-termination. As
of September 30, 2001, the Company's recorded basis in equity securities was $35 million, including $10 million classified as "Marketable securities," $7 million classified as "Investments in equity-method investees," and
$18 million classified as "Other equity investments." Note 8. Commitments
and Contingencies
As previously reported, the Company has received informal inquiries from the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff ("SEC Staff") with
respect to accounting treatment and disclosures for some of our initial strategic partner transactions and has been cooperating with the SEC Staff in responding to those inquiries. The Company has reviewed its accounting treatment for the
transactions with the Company's independent auditors and the SEC Staff, and believes its accounting treatment and disclosures were appropriate. As previously reported, on April 12, 2001, the Company received a request from the SEC Staff for the voluntary production of documents and
information concerning, among other things, previously reported sales of the Company's common stock by Jeffrey Bezos on February 2 and 5, 2001. The Company is cooperating with the SEC Staff's continuing inquiry. A number of purported class action complaints were filed by holders of
Amazon.com equity and debt securities against the Company, its directors and certain of its senior officers during the nine months ended September 30, 2001, in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington, alleging
violations of the Securities Act of 1933 (the "1933 Act") and/or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "1934 Act"). On October 5, 2001, plaintiffs in the 1934 Act cases filed a consolidated amended complaint alleging that the
Company, together with certain of its officers and directors and certain third-parties, made false or misleading statements during the period from October 29, 1998 through July 23, 2001 concerning the Company's business,
13
financial condition and results, inventories, future prospects, and strategic partner transactions. The 1933 Act complaint alleges that the defendants made false or misleading statements in
connection with the Company's February 2000 offering of the PEACS. The complaints seek recissionary and/or compensatory damages and injunctive relief against all defendants. The Company disputes the allegations of wrongdoing in these complaints
and intends to vigorously defend itself in these matters. Depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could materially affect the Company's business, future results of operations,
financial position or cash flows in a particular period. From time to time, the Company is subject to other legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business, including claims of alleged infringement of trademarks,
copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights. The Company currently is not aware of any such legal proceedings or claims that management believes will have, individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on the
Company's business, financial condition or operating results. Note
9. Comprehensive Loss The components of comprehensive loss were as follows (in thousands):
Activity in
other comprehensive loss relating to the Euro-based currency swap was as follows (in thousands):
Note 10. Segment Information
In January 2001, the Company began presenting
information to its chief operating decision maker in four segments: U.S. Books, Music and DVD/Video; U.S. Electronics, Tools and Kitchen; Services and International. Accordingly, the Company is now disclosing its segment financial information along
these lines. Allocation
14
methodologies are consistent with past presentations, and prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current period presentation. The U.S. Books, Music and DVD/Video segment
includes revenues, direct costs, and cost allocations associated with retail sales from for books, music and DVD/video products, including amounts earned on sales of similar products, new or used, sold through Amazon
Marketplace. The U.S. Electronics, Tools and Kitchen segment includes revenues, direct costs, and cost allocations associated with retail sales of electronics, computers, camera and photo items, software, computer and video
games, cell phones and related service, tools and hardware, outdoor living items, kitchen and housewares products and toys sold other than through the Company's Toysrus.com strategic alliance and new initiatives. The U.S. Electronics, Tools and
Kitchen segment also includes amounts earned on sales of similar products, new or used, sold through Amazon Marketplace. The Services segment includes revenues, direct costs, and cost allocations associated with the Company's
business-to-business strategic relationships, including offering products or services sold by us through syndicated stores such as providing the Company's technology services such as search, browse and personalization;
permitting third parties to offer non-overlapping products or services through our Web site; and powering third-party Web sites, providing fulfillment services, or both. The Services segment also includes Auctions, zShops and Payments, and
miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. The International segment includes all revenues, direct costs, and cost allocations associated with the retail sales of the Company's four internationally-focused sites: ,
, and . Service revenues during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2001 related primarily to commercial agreements with Toysrus.com, Borders Group, Inc. and drugstore.com.
Included in service revenues for the comparative periods of the prior year were amounts associated with the $20 million sale of inventory, at cost, relating to the transition of the toys and video games product categories to Toysrus.com. Included in
service revenues are equity-based service revenues of $5 million and $21 million for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and $22 million and $58 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000,
respectively. Equity-based service revenues result from private and public securities received and amortized into results of operations. The Company measures the results of operations of its reportable segments using a pro forma measure. Pro forma results from operations, which excludes
stock-based compensation, amortization of goodwill and other intangibles, and restructuring-related and other charges are not in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Information on reportable segments and reconciliation to consolidated net loss is as follows (in
thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, 2001:
15
Three Months Ended September 30, 2000:
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2001:
Nine Months Ended September 30, 2000:
16
Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than
statements of historical fact, including statements regarding industry prospects and future results of operations or financial position, made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are forward looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes,
expects, future, intends and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management's current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Our actual results may differ significantly from management's
expectations. The following discussion includes forward-looking statements regarding expectations of future pro forma operating profitability, net sales, gross margin, certain operating expenses, operating loss, and cash, cash equivalents and
marketable securities balances, all of which are inherently difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, the rate of growth of the economy in general, the Internet and online
commerce, customer spending patterns, the amount that we invest in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, risks of
inventory management, the degree to which we enter into service relationships and other strategic transactions, fluctuations in the value of securities and non-cash payments we receive in connection with such transactions, foreign currency exchange
risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from management's expectations, are described in greater
detail in the section entitled "Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results," which, along with the following discussion, describes some, but not all, of the factors that could cause actual results to differ significantly from
management's expectations. Events of September 11, 2001 The events of September 11, 2001 negatively impacted our net sales during the three months ended
September 30, 2001. Immediately following the events of September 11, 2001, customer purchases significantly declined but have recovered. We estimate that the net sales impact as a result of the events of September 11, 2001 was between $25 million
and $35 million. Results of Operations
Net sales includes the selling price of consumer products sold by us, less promotional gift certificates and sales returns; outbound shipping charges billed to our customers;
commissions and other amounts earned from sales of new and used products on our Amazon Marketplace, Auctions and zShops; and amounts earned in connection with our business-to-business strategic alliances, which includes the selling price of consumer
products sold by us through syndicated stores such as commissions earned from third parties who utilize our technology services such as search, browse and personalization; commissions earned from third parties who offer
non-overlapping products through our Web site; amounts earned for featuring third-party storefronts and products alongside our own product inventory in our single detail pages; miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements; and amounts earned
for powering third-party Web sites, providing fulfillment services, or both. Net sales were $639 million and $638 million for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and $2.0 billion and $1.8 billion for the nine months ended
September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, representing increases of less than 1% and 12%, respectively. The slowing growth rates in our net
17
sales reflect declines in general economic conditions (including declines resulting from the events of September 11, 2001), a shift in the source of our product sales towards new and used
products sold through Amazon Marketplace, and amounts included in the prior comparative periods that are not recurring. Included in net sales for the comparative periods of the prior year were online sales of toys and video games, product lines that
are now sold through our strategic alliance with Toysrus.com, and amounts associated with the $20 million sale of inventory, at cost, to Toysrus.com relating to the transition of the toys and video games product categories. Increases in absolute
dollars for the nine months ended September 30, 2001, in comparison with the corresponding period in the prior year, are primarily due to increases in unit sales from our internationally-focused websites and increases in our Services segment
resulting from the Toysrus.com strategic alliance, which commenced during the third quarter of 2000. Net sales for our U.S. Books, Music and DVD/Video segment were $351 million and $400 million for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and $1.15 billion
and $1.19 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Included in net sales for this segment are sales of consumer products and related shipping charges for our books, music and DVD/video products sold through
, including amounts earned on sales of similar products, new or used, sold through Amazon Marketplace. Amazon Marketplace represented 17% of total orders in our U.S. Retail segments, primarily relating to our U.S. Books, Music
and DVD/Video segment, during the three months ended September 30, 2001. No Amazon Marketplace orders were placed in the comparative three-month period of the preceding year. Net sales for our U.S. Books Music and DVD/Video segment declined by 12%
and 3% in comparison to the corresponding three and nine-month periods in the prior year, respectively. These declines reflect several factors including a shift in the source of our product sales towards new and used products sold through Amazon
Marketplace, a general increase in customer discounts offered during the third quarter of 2001 as compared to a general decrease of such discounts offered during the comparative quarter of the preceding year, a continuing focus on balancing revenue
growth with operating profitability, and declines in general economic conditions (including declines resulting from the events of September 11, 2001). Net sales for our U.S. Electronics, Tools and Kitchen segment were $103 million and $98 million for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000,
respectively, and $331 million and $264 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Included in net sales for this segment are sales of consumer products and related shipping charges for electronics, computers,
camera and photo items, software, tools and hardware, outdoor living items, kitchen and houseware products, cell phones and service sold through , and toys and video games sold other than through our strategic alliance with
Toysrus.com. The U.S. Electronics, Tools and Kitchen segment also includes amounts earned on sales of similar products, new or used, sold through Amazon Marketplace. The growth rate in comparison to the corresponding three and nine-month periods in
the prior year for the U.S. Electronics, Tools and Kitchen segment was 6% and 25%, respectively. Excluding online sales of toys and video games which, since September 2000, are now sold at through our strategic alliance with
Toysrus.com, growth rates for our U.S. Electronics, Tools and Kitchen segment would have been 23% and 50% for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2001, respectively. Growth in net sales for our U.S. Electronics, Tools and Kitchen segment
reflects increases in units sold by our electronics, kitchen and housewares, and outdoor living stores in comparison with the same periods in 2000, offset by declines in general economic conditions (including declines resulting from the events of
September 11, 2001), and the decline in online sales of toys and video game products which are now sold through our strategic alliance with Toysrus.com. Net sales for our Services segment were $46 million and $53 million for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and $127 million
and $103 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000 respectively. Net sales for our Services segment include amounts earned in connection with our business-to-business strategic relationships, which includes the selling price of
consumer products sold by us through syndicated stores such as commissions earned from third parties who utilize our technology services such as search, browse and personalization; commissions earned from third parties who
offer non-overlapping products or services through our Web site; and amounts earned for powering third-party Web sites, providing fulfillment services, or both. Net sales for our Services segment also includes
18
amounts earned through Auctions, zShops and Payments, and miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. For the three months ended September 30, 2001, our Services segment declined by 12%
in comparison to the corresponding period in the prior year. This decline was primarily due to the amounts included in the prior year comparative period associated with the $20 million sale of inventory, at cost, relating to the transition of the
toys and video games product categories to Toysrus.com. For the nine months ended September 30, 2001, our Services segment grew by 23%, primarily reflecting the impact of our Toysrus.com strategic alliance, which commenced during the third quarter
of 2000, offset by the conclusion of certain of our initial strategic marketing relationships. Included in service revenues are equity-based service revenues of $5 million and $21 million for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000,
respectively, and $22 million and $58 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Equity-based service revenues result from private and public securities received and amortized into results of operations.
Net sales for our International segment were $138 million and $88
million for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and $399 million and $236 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Net sales in this segment were comprised primarily of books, music
and DVD/video consumer product sales and related shipping charges to our customers sold through , , and Web sites, including their export sales into the United States, and
also includes sales of our recently-opened consumer electronics stores at and . The growth in comparison to the corresponding three and nine-month periods in the prior year for the International segment
was 58% and 69%, respectively, which reflects increases in units sold by our and sites, as well as the launch of our new and sites during the second half of
2000. Sales to customers outside the United States, including export sales from , represented, as a percentage of consolidated net sales, approximately 29% and 23% for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000,
respectively, and 28% and 23% for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Shipping revenue across all segments was $74 million and $78 million for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and $232 million and $226 million for the
nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Shipping revenue in 2001 generally corresponds with unit sales levels, offset by our periodic free and reduced-shipping promotions. In connection with the Events of September 11, 2001, we collected donations on behalf of the American
Red Cross. The customers of Amazon.com generously contributed nearly $7 million dollars in support of this relief effort; amounts collected on behalf of the American Red Cross are excluded from net sales. Normal fees associated with our Payments
system were waived for these contributions, and the following payment-processing organizations generously waived the fees they normally charge to Amazon.com: Paymentech, Inc., Discover/Novus, Mastercard, JCB, American Express, Diners Club, and Visa.
We expect net sales for the fourth quarter ending December 31,
2001 to between $970 million and $1.07 billion. However, any such projections are subject to substantial uncertainty. See the section entitled "Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results."
Gross profit is net sales less the cost of sales, which consists of the purchase price of consumer products sold by us, inbound and outbound shipping charges, packaging supplies,
and certain costs associated with our service revenues. Costs associated with our service revenues classified as cost of services generally include fulfillment-related costs to ship products on behalf of our service partners, costs to provide
customer service, credit-card fees and other related costs. Cost of sales for our Services segment associated with syndicated stores, such as , consists only of the purchase price of consumer products, inbound and outbound
shipping charges and packaging supplies. Gross profit was $162
million and $167 million for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and $525 million and $431 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000,
19
respectively, representing a decrease of 3% and an increase of 22%, respectively. Declines in the absolute dollars of gross profit during the three months ended September 30, 2001 primarily
reflect the general increase in customer discounts offered during the third quarter of 2001 as compared to a general decrease of such discounts offered during the comparative quarter of the preceding year for our Books, Music and DVD/Video segment;
the effect of our various reduced-rate and free-shipping promotions; the decline in Services revenue and margin resulting from a shift in the mix of our strategic relationships towards alliances that incorporate a broad range of services, including
fulfillment; as well as declines in general economic conditions (including declines resulting from the events of September 11, 2001). Offsetting these declines were improvements in inventory management and product sourcing, as well as increased unit
sales from our internationally-focused Web sites. Increases in absolute dollars of gross profit during the nine months ended September 30, 2001 reflect our improvements in inventory management, and general declines in customer discounts offered
during this period. Excluding the results of our Services segment, gross margin would have been 23% for each of the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, as compared with an overall gross margin of 25% and 26%, respectively. Excluding the
results of our Services segment, gross margin would have been 24% and 21% for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, as compared with an overall gross margin of 26% and 24%, respectively. Gross profit for our U.S. Books, Music and DVD/video segment was $93 million and $109
million for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and $313 million and $278 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, which represents a decline of 14% and an increase of 13%,
respectively. Gross margin was 27% during each of the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, and 27% and 23% for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Gross margin for the three months ended September 30, 2001 was
negatively impacted by increases in discounts offered on our books product line, offset by higher-margin sales of new and used products sold through Amazon Marketplace. Improvements in gross margin for the year-to-date comparative periods primarily
reflect our efforts to improve product sourcing as we continued to increase the percentage of products sourced directly from publishers, a favorable mix in customer discounts and lower inventory charges as a percent of sales, and to a lesser extent
the higher margin sales of new and used products sold through Amazon Marketplace. Gross profit for our U.S. Electronics, Tools and Kitchen segment was $13 million and $9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and $44
million and $22 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, which represents increases of 49% and 96%, respectively. Increases in gross profit for each of the comparative periods corresponds with increases in net
sales, as well as improvements in gross margin. Gross margin was 13% and 9% for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and 13% and 8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Improvements in
gross margin over the corresponding periods of the prior year primarily reflect our efforts to improve sourcing arrangements, the introduction of new product categories, and improvements in inventory management. Gross profit for our Services segment was $27 million and $31 million for the three months ended
September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and $82 million and $80 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, which represents a decline of 11% and an increase of 3%, respectively. Costs associated with our service
revenues classified as cost of services generally include fulfillment-related costs to ship products on behalf of our service partners, costs to provide customer service, credit-card fees and other related costs. Cost of sales for our Services
segment associated with syndicated stores, such as , consists only of the purchase price of consumer products, inbound and outbound shipping charges and packaging supplies. Gross margin was 59% and 58% for the three months
ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and 64% and 77% for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Gross profit from our Services segment largely corresponds with revenues from our business-to-business strategic
relationships, which includes the selling price of consumer products sold by us through syndicated stores such as commissions earned from third parties who utilize our technology services such as search, browse and
personalization; commissions earned from third parties who offer
20
non-overlapping products or services through our Web site; and amounts earned for powering third-party web-sites, providing fulfillment services, or both. Gross profit for our Services segment
also includes amounts earned through Auctions, zShops and Payments, and miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. The decline in gross profit from our Services segment for the three months ended September 30, 2001 in comparison to the
corresponding period in the prior year corresponds with the decline in net sales for the same periods, and also relates to service costs classified in cost of sales resulting from the shift in the mix of our strategic relationships towards alliances
that incorporate a broad range of services, including fulfillment. Included in service revenues are equity-based service revenues of $5 million and $21 million for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, and $22 million and $58 million
for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000. Equity-based service revenues are associated with private and public securities received and amortized into results of operations. Gross profit for our International segment was $28 million and $19 million for the three months ended
September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and $86 million and $51 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, which represents increases of 49% and 67%, respectively. Gross margin was 20% and 22% for the three
months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and 21% and 22% for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The increase in our absolute gross profit dollars reflects increases in units sold by our
and sites in comparison with the same periods in the prior year, as well as the launch of our and sites during the second half of 2000. The decline in gross
margin for each of the comparative periods corresponds with changes in the mix of customer discounts, the addition of electronics as a product category offered at and , as well as increased provisions for
inventory-related allowances. Shipping gross loss across all
segments was $2 million and shipping gross profit was $8 million during the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and shipping gross loss was $8 million and shipping gross profit was $16 million for the nine months ended
September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The gross loss in shipping in the three and nine-month periods of 2001 was due, in part, to a higher revenue mix from our business units in countries that offer free shipping or product lines that involve
low margin shipping, as well as selective free-shipping promotions in the U.S.; well-publicized rate increases and fuel-surcharges from our major suppliers; as well as costs associated with split and long-zone shipments. Shipping losses incurred
from our internationally-focused Web sites, included in shipping results across all segments, were $3 million and $1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and $8 million and $4 million for the nine months
ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. We continue to measure our shipping results relative to their impact on our overall financial results, with the viewpoint that shipping promotions are an effective marketing tool. We will from time to
time continue offering shipping promotions to our customers and may continue to experience fluctuating margins from shipping activities. We expect our overall gross margin to be between 22% and 25% of net sales for the quarter ending December 31, 2001. However, any such projections are subject
to substantial uncertainty. See the section entitled "Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results."
Fulfillment costs represent those costs incurred in operating and staffing our fulfillment and customer service centers, including costs attributable to receiving, inspecting and
warehousing inventories; picking, packaging and preparing customers' orders for shipment; credit card fees and bad debt costs; and responding to inquiries from customers. Certain fulfillment-related costs to ship products on behalf of our
service partners, excluding those costs associated with syndicated stores, are classified as cost of sales rather than fulfillment. Fulfillment costs were $81 million and $96 million for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000,
respectively, representing 13% and 15% of net sales for the corresponding periods. Fulfillment costs were $265 million and $283 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, representing 13% and 16% of net sales for
the corresponding periods, respectively. Excluding net sales from our services segment, fulfillment costs represent 14% and 16% of net sales for the three months ended September 30,
21
2001 and 2000, respectively, and 14% and 17% of net sales for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000. We expect our fulfillment costs to decline in the future due to our continued
efforts to improve operational efficiency and as we are able to leverage the fixed-cost portion of our fulfillment-network infrastructure. However, any such projections are subject to substantial uncertainty. See the section entitled
"Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results."
Marketing expenses consist of advertising, promotional and public relations expenditures, and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling
activities. Marketing expenses, net of co-operative marketing reimbursements, were $33 million and $42 million, representing 5% and 7% of net sales, for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and $104 million and $125
million, representing 5% and 7% of net sales, for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Declines in spending for marketing-related activities in comparison to corresponding periods in the prior year reflect management
efforts to target advertising spending in channels considered most effective at driving incremental net sales, while reducing overall advertising-related costs.
Technology and content expenses consist principally of payroll and related expenses for development, editorial, systems and telecommunications operations personnel and consultants;
systems and telecommunications infrastructure; and costs of acquired content, including freelance reviews. Technology and content expense was $54 million and $71 million for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively,
representing 8% and 11% of net sales for the corresponding periods, respectively, and $189 million and $200 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, representing 9% and 11% of net sales for the corresponding
periods, respectively. The decline in absolute dollars spent during the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2001 in comparison to the corresponding periods in the prior year primarily reflect our migration to a Linux-based technology
platform that utilizes a less-costly technology infrastructure, as well as general price reductions for data and telecommunication services due to market overcapacity. We expect to continue to invest in technology and improvements in our Web sites
during the remainder of 2001 and 2002, which may include, but is not limited to, offering additional product categories to our customers and implementing additional strategic alliances, as well as potentially continuing our international expansion.
General and administrative expenses consist of payroll and related expenses for executive, finance and administrative personnel, recruiting, professional
fees and other general corporate expenses. General and administrative expenses were $21 million and $26 million for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, representing 3% and 4% of net sales for the corresponding periods,
respectively, and $70 million and $81 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, representing 4% and 5% of net sales for the corresponding periods, respectively. The decline in absolute dollars of general and
administrative costs was primarily due to our operational restructuring plan announced in January 2001, which reduced the number of positions in finance and administrative roles and consolidated our corporate office locations.
During the first quarter of 2001, we offered a limited non-compulsory exchange of employee stock options. The exchange resulted in the voluntary cancellation
of employee stock options to purchase 31 million shares of common stock with varying exercise prices in exchange for 12 million employee stock options with an exercise price of $13.375. The option exchange offer resulted in variable accounting
treatment for, at the time of the
22
exchange, approximately 15 million stock options, which includes options granted under the exchange offer and 3 million options, with a weighted average exercise price of $52.41, that were
subject to the exchange offer but were not exchanged. Variable accounting will continue until all options subject to variable accounting treatment are exercised, cancelled or expired. At September 30, 2001, approximately 13 million shares remain
under variable accounting treatment, which includes 11 million options granted under the exchange offer and 2 million options, with a weighted average exercise price of $46.70, that were subject to the exchange offer but were not exchanged. Variable
accounting treatment will result in unpredictable charges or credits, recorded to "Stock-based compensation," dependent on fluctuations in quoted prices for our common stock. Stock-based compensation includes stock-based charges resulting from variable accounting
treatment, option-related deferred compensation recorded at our initial public offering, as well as certain other compensation and severance arrangements. Stock-based compensation also includes the portion of acquisition-related consideration
conditioned on the continued tenure of key employees of certain acquired businesses, which must be classified as compensation expense rather than as a component of purchase price under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
Stock-based compensation was a contra-expense of $3 million and an expense of $4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and expenses of $3 million and $26 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2001
and 2000, respectively. The declines in stock-based compensation during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2001 resulted from the full vesting and corresponding full amortization of deferred stock-based compensation by employees
associated with certain acquired businesses and the reversal of variable accounting charges recorded in prior months as a result of declines in quoted prices for the Company's common stock. The stock-based compensation related to variable
accounting treatment was a contra-expense of $4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2001, reducing to zero the variable accounting charge for the nine months ended September 30, 2001. During the three months ended September 30, 2001, we issued 26 million employee stock options,
with a weighted average exercise price of $7.93, in connection with our annual performance-based option-grant program. These options are not subject to variable accounting treatment as they were issued at least six months from the date the limited
non-compulsory exchange concluded. The number of shares of common stock subject to vested and unvested employee stock options was approximately 67 million and 70 million, or 18% and 20% of our outstanding common stock at September 30, 2001 and
December 31, 2000, respectively.
Amortization of goodwill and other intangibles was $42 million and $79 million for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and
2000, respectively, and $143 million and $243 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. During the fourth quarter of 2000, we recorded an impairment on goodwill and other intangibles relating to certain of our 1999
acquisitions. This impairment loss reduced our recorded basis in goodwill and other intangibles and had the effect of reducing amortization expense during the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2001, and will continue to reduce the
amortization expense, relating to these 1999 acquisitions, going forward. In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," which requires use of a
nonamortization approach to account for purchased goodwill and certain intangibles, effective January 1, 2002. Under this nonamortization approach, goodwill and certain intangibles will not be amortized into results of operations, but instead will
be reviewed for impairment and written down and charged to results of operations only in the periods in which the recorded value of goodwill and certain intangibles is more than its fair value. We expect the adoption of this accounting standard will
have the impact of substantially reducing our amortization of goodwill and intangibles commencing January 1, 2002; however, impairment reviews may result in future periodic write-downs.
Restructuring-related and other expenses were $4 million and $12 million for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and
$177 million and $16 million for the nine months ended
23
September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. In the first quarter of 2001, we announced and began implementation of our operational restructuring plan to reduce our operating costs, streamline our
organizational structure, and consolidate certain of our fulfillment and customer service operations. As a result of this operational restructuring, we recorded restructuring and other charges of $114 million during the three months ended March 31,
2001, and additional charges of $59 million and $4 million during the three months ended June 30, 2001 and September 30, 2001, respectively. This initiative involved the reduction of employee staff by approximately 1,300 positions throughout the
Company in managerial, professional, clerical, technical and fulfillment roles; consolidation of our Seattle, Washington corporate office locations; closure of our McDonough, Georgia fulfillment center; seasonal operation of our Seattle, Washington
fulfillment center; closure of our customer service centers in Seattle, Washington and The Hague, Netherlands; and migration of a large portion of our technology infrastructure to a Linux-based operating platform, which entails ongoing lease
obligations for technology infrastructure no longer being utilized. Each component of the restructuring plan has been substantially completed. As of September 30, 2001, 1,320 employees had been terminated, and actual termination benefits paid were
$11 million. Costs that relate to ongoing
operations are not part of restructuring charges and are not included in "Restructuring-related and other." In accordance with EITF 96-9, "Classification of Inventory Markdowns and Other Costs Associated with a
Restructuring," all inventory adjustments that may result from the closure or seasonal operation of our fulfillment centers are classified in "Cost of goods sold" on the consolidated statements of operations. As of September 30, 2001,
there have been no significant inventory writedowns resulting from the restructuring, and none are anticipated. The charges associated with our restructuring were as follows (in thousands):
Asset
impairments primarily relate to the closure of the McDonough, Georgia fulfillment center, the write-off of leasehold improvements in vacated corporate office space, and the other-than-temporary decline in the fair value of assets in the Seattle,
Washington fulfillment center. For assets to be disposed of, we estimated the fair value based on expected salvage value less costs to sell. For assets held for continued use, the decline in fair value was measured using discounted estimates of
future cash flows. We are actively seeking third-party buyers for the assets held for disposal. Asset impairments recorded during the three months ended September 30, 2001 primarily relate to additional fulfillment-center equipment identified as no
longer in service as a result of our operational restructuring. Continuing lease obligations primarily relate to heavy equipment previously used in the McDonough, Georgia fulfillment center, vacated corporate office space, technology
infrastructure no longer being utilized, and the unutilized portion of our back-up data center. Where possible, we are actively seeking third-parties to sub-lease abandoned equipment and facilities. Amounts expensed represent estimates of
undiscounted future cash outflows, offset by anticipated third-party sub-leases. Amounts expensed during the third quarter of 2001 primarily relate to revisions of cash flow estimates for corporate office facilities, and to a lesser extent,
technology infrastructure no longer being utilized. Termination benefits are comprised of severance-related payments for all employees terminated in connection with the operational restructuring, as well as $2.5 million of the
Company's common stock
24
contributed to a trust fund for the benefit of terminated employees. Termination benefits do not include any amounts for employment-related services prior to termination. Other restructuring
costs include professional fees, decommissioning costs of vacated facilities, broker commissions and other miscellaneous expenses directly attributable to the restructuring.
Cash payments resulting from the restructuring during the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2001 were $15
million and $35 million, respectively. We anticipate the restructuring charges will result in the following net cash outflows (in thousands):
Restructuring-related and other charges recorded during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2000 were primarily associated with asset impairments relating to computer and
fulfillment-center equipment to be disposed of, as well as certain acquisition-related expenses, such as bonuses paid to employees of acquired companies and other miscellaneous acquisition-related expenses.
Our loss from operations was $70 million and $164 million for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and $427 million and
$542 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Excluding the restructuring-related charges included in "Restructuring-related and other," our loss from operations would have been $66 million and $250
million for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2001, respectively. Excluding the restructuring-related charges, the improvement in operating loss for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2001 in comparison with the
prior periods was primarily due to declines in non-cash charges such as amortization of goodwill and other intangibles, as well as a reduction in other operating costs, including fulfillment, marketing, technology and content, and general and
administrative.
Net interest expense and other, excluding "Other gains (losses), net," was $31 million and $21 million for the three months ended
September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and $88 million and $70 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Interest income was $6 million and $9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000,
respectively, and $23 million and $30 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Interest expense was $35 million and $34 million for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and $104
million and $95 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000. Other income and expense, consisting primarily of realized gains and losses on sales of marketable securities, miscellaneous operating taxes and certain realized
foreign-currency related transactional gains and losses, was a net expense of $2 million and a gain of $3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and represented net expenses of $7 million and $5 million for the
nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Interest income relates primarily to interest earned on fixed income securities and correlates with the average balance of those investments and prevailing interest rates. The increase in
interest expense during the nine month period ended September 30, 2001 over the same period for
25
2000 is primarily related to our February 2000 issuance of the PEACS. Other components of interest expense include our February 1999 issuance of $1.25 billion of 4.75% Convertible Subordinated
Notes due 2009 (the "4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes"), and our May 1998 issuance of approximately $326 million gross proceeds of 10% Senior Discount Notes due 2008 (the "Senior Discount Notes").
Other gains (losses), net were recorded for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2001 and resulted in net losses of $64 million and $18
million, respectively. Other gains (losses), net consisted of the following (in thousands):
Effective
January 1, 2001, currency gains and losses arising from the remeasurement of the PEACS's principal from Euros to U.S. dollars each period are recorded to "Other gains (losses), net." Prior to January 1, 2001, PEACS's principal of
615 million Euros was designated as a hedge of an equivalent amount of Euro-denominated investments classified as available-for-sale; accordingly, currency gains and losses on the PEACS were recorded to "Accumulated other comprehensive
loss" as hedging offsets to currency gains and losses on the Euro-denominated investments. As the hedge does not qualify for hedge accounting under the provisions of SFAS 133, commencing January 1, 2001, the foreign currency change resulting
from the portion of the PEACS previously hedging the available-for-sale securities is now being recorded in the statements of operations. During the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2001, the remeasurement of the PEACS resulted in a
loss of $40 million and a gain of $29 million, respectively. We also recorded impairment losses of $2 million and $43 million for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2001, respectively, relating to other-than-temporary
declines in the fair value of Webvan Group, Inc, Sotheby's Holdings, Inc., WeddingChannel.com, Inc. Ashford.com, Inc., Audible, Inc. and drugstore.com, inc. These impairments were recorded to reflect the investments at fair value. As of June
30, 2001, our recorded basis in our investment in Webvan Group, Inc. was reduced to zero as Webvan Group, Inc. ceased operations and filed for bankruptcy. We do not expect to recover any portion of our investment in Webvan Group, Inc.
On February 5, 2001, we terminated our commercial
agreement with Kozmo.com and recorded a non-cash gain of $22 million, representing the amount of unearned revenue associated with the contract. Since services had not yet been performed under the contract, no amounts associated with this commercial
agreement were recognized in "Net sales" during any period. Furthermore, during 1999, we made a cash investment of $60 million to acquire preferred stock of Kozmo.com and accounted for our investment under the equity method of accounting.
Pursuant to the equity method of accounting, we recorded our share of Kozmo.com losses, which, during 2000, reduced our basis in the investment to zero. Accordingly, when Kozmo.com announced its intentions to cease operations on April 12, 2001, we
did not have any further loss exposure relating to our investment. We do not expect to recover any portion of our investment in Kozmo.com. Net gains of $12 million were recorded to Other gains (losses), net during the comparable three-month period in the prior year. Included in this
amount was a $34 million loss associated with other-than-temporary declines in the fair value of Audible, Inc. and Nextcard, Inc., a gain of $40 million relating to the acquisition of Homegrocer.com by Webvan Group, Inc., and a $6 million net gain
relating to the bankruptcy of Living.com and corresponding commercial contract-termination.
26
As of September 30, 2001,
our recorded basis in equity securities was $35 million, including $10 million classified as "Marketable securities," $7 million classified as "Investments in equity-method investees," and $18 million classified as "Other
equity investments."
Equity in losses of equity-method investees represents our share of losses of companies in which we have investments that give us
the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over an investee. This is generally defined as an ownership interest of the voting stock of the investee of between 20% and 50%, although other factors, such as representation on our
investee's Board of Directors and the impact of commercial arrangements, are considered in determining whether the equity method of accounting is appropriate. Our share of equity-method losses was $5 million and $68 million for the three months
ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and $28 million and $267 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Equity-method losses reduce our underlying investment balances until the recorded basis is reduced
to zero. As of September 30, 2001, our basis in equity-method investments was $7 million. No cash investments have been made in equity-method investees during 2001. Accordingly, as equity-method losses are only recorded until the underlying
investments are reduced to zero, we expect, absent additional investments in the voting stock of third parties, equity-method losses to continue to decline in comparison with prior periods during the remainder of 2001.
We provided for an immaterial amount of current and deferred U.S. federal, state or foreign income taxes for the current and prior period. We
provided a full valuation allowance on our deferred tax asset, consisting primarily of net operating losses, because of uncertainty regarding its realization.
We provide certain pro forma information regarding our results from operations, which excludes stock-based compensation, amortization of goodwill
and other intangibles, and restructuring-related and other charges. We also provide certain pro forma information regarding our net loss, which excludes other gains (losses), net; equity in losses of equity-method investees, net; cumulative effect
of change in accounting principle; and amounts excluded from pro forma operating results. This pro forma information is not presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
27
Pro forma results, and
certain cash flow information for the three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000 were as follows (in thousands, except per share data):
28
Pro forma results, and certain
cash flow information for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000 were as follows (in thousands, except per share data):
We are providing pro
forma results for informational purposes only. The pro forma results are derived from information recorded in our financial statements. We expect pro forma operating profitability for the fourth quarter ending December 31, 2001. We further expect the combined results of our and
Web sites to be break-even on a pro forma operating basis, with a margin of error of 2% of their combined net sales for the fourth quarter ending December 31, 2001. However, any such projections are subject to substantial
uncertainty. See the section entitled "Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results." Liquidity and Capital
Resources Our cash and cash equivalents balance was $432
million and $822 million, and our marketable securities balance was $236 million and $278 million at September 30, 2001 and December 31, 2000, respectively.
29
Net cash used by operating activities was $64 million for the three months ended
September 30, 2001 and cash used by operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 was $469 million. These operating cash flows resulted from our net loss of $170 million and $572 million for the three and nine months ended
September 30, 2001, respectively, and by net non-cash charges and changes in operating assets and liabilities. For the three months ended September 30, 2001, net non-cash charges were $135 million, and cash used from changes in operating assets and
liabilities was $30 million. For the nine months ended September 30, 2001, net non-cash charges were $357 million, and cash used from changes in operating assets and liabilities was $253 million. Cash used in operating activities was $4 million and
$378 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2000. Net cash used in investing activities was $95 million and $21 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2001, respectively. For the three and nine months ended
September 30, 2001, investing cash flows consisted of net purchases of marketable securities of $82 million and net sales of marketable securities of $22 million, respectively, and purchases of fixed assets of $13 million and $43 million,
respectively. Net cash provided by investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2000 was $267 million, which related primarily to net sales and maturities in excess of purchases of marketable securities of $426 million, offset by
purchases of fixed assets of $97 million and purchases of strategic investments of $62 million. Net cash provided by financing activities was $94 million and $109 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2001, respectively, and related primarily to proceeds
from the issuance of common stock to America Online as well as exercises of stock options, offset by repayments of long-term capital lease obligations. Net cash provided by financing activities of $692 million for the nine months ended September 30,
2000 was primarily related to our issuance of 690 million Euros of PEACS, net of financing costs. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2001, cash equivalents and marketable securities were increased by $42 million and decreased by $15 million, respectively, from
the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, primarily associated with our Euro-denominated investments. As of September 30, 2001, our principal sources of liquidity consisted of $668 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. As of that date, our principal
commitments consisted of long-term obligations totaling $2.2 billion related primarily to our 6.875% PEACS, 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes and Senior Discount Notes, as well as $0.8 billion in obligations related to operating leases, trade
payables, and commitments for advertising and promotional arrangements. We believe that current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months.
We expect that our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance will be approximately $900 million at December 31, 2001 and exceed $550 million at March 31, 2002 and to generate operating cash flows for the remaining three quarters in
2002 combined. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See "Additional Factors that May Affect Future Results." We continually evaluate opportunities to sell additional equity or
debt securities, obtain credit facilities from lenders, or restructure our long-term debt for strategic reasons or to further strengthen our financial position. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in additional
dilution to the Company's stockholders. In addition, we will, from time to time, consider the acquisition of or investment in complementary businesses, products, services and technologies, and the repurchase and retirement of debt, which might
impact our liquidity requirements or cause us to issue additional equity or debt securities. There can be no assurance that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Strategic Alliances In the fall of 1999, we began entering into business-to-business strategic relationships, including offering products or services sold by us through syndicated stores such as
providing the Company's technology services such as search, browse and personalization; permitting third parties to offer products or services through our Web site; and powering third-party Web sites, providing
fulfillment services, or both. These
30
strategic relationships also include miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. As compensation for the services we provide under these agreements, we receive one or a combination of any
of the following: cash, equity securities of these strategic partners, additional Web site traffic or other benefits. In some cases, we have also made separate investments in these partners by making cash payments in exchange for their equity
securities. We received cash payments or recorded cash receivables of $33 million and $77 million as unearned revenue for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2001, respectively. Equity securities in the amount of $331 thousand were
received during the first quarter of 2001 as compensation for current and future services; no similar arrangements occurred during the second or third quarters of 2001. Service revenue was $46 million and $53 million for the three months ended
September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and $127 million and $103 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Included in service revenues are equity-based service revenues of $5 million and $21 million for the
three months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and $22 million and $58 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Equity-based service revenues result from private and public securities received and
amortized into results of operations. For equity securities of
public companies, we generally determine fair value based on the quoted market price at the time we enter into the underlying commercial agreement, and adjust such market price appropriately if significant restrictions on marketability exist.
Because an observable market price does not exist for equity securities of private companies, our estimates of fair value of such securities are more subjective than for the securities of public companies. For significant transactions involving
equity securities in private companies, we obtain and consider independent, third-party valuations where appropriate. Such valuations use a variety of methodologies to estimate fair value, including comparing the security with securities of publicly
traded companies in similar lines of business, applying price multiples to estimated future operating results for the private company, and utilizing estimated discounted cash flows for that company. These valuations also reduce the otherwise fair
value by a factor that is intended to account for restrictions on control and marketability where appropriate. Using these valuations and other information available to us, such as our knowledge of the industry and knowledge of specific information
about the investee, we determine the estimated fair value of the securities received. The fair value of these securities, less the net amount of cash we paid for them, is then recorded as unearned revenue. Our recorded unearned revenue resulting from these
transactions and any additional proceeds received under the arrangements is recognized as revenue over the terms (generally, one to three years) of the commercial agreements with our strategic partners. Pursuant to Emerging Issues Task Force Issue
00-8, "Accounting by a Grantee for an Equity Instrument to Be Received in Conjunction with Providing Goods or Services," we do not adjust unearned revenue to give effect to either increase or decrease in value of the equity securities
subsequent to their initial measurement (to the extent that such securities are either not subject to vesting or forfeiture or, if subject to vesting or forfeiture, were not received or modified after March 16, 2000). Therefore, the value of equity
securities recorded as unearned revenue could decline in value significantly after the initial measurement is made. We have in the past, and may in the future, experience losses with respect to investments in strategic partners that are not equity
method investees as a result of either liquidation of such investments at a loss or provision for an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value of these investments. See "Other gains (losses), net." In addition, we have in the past,
and may in the future, amend our agreements with certain of our strategic partners to reduce future cash proceeds to be received by us, shorten the term of our commercial agreements, or both. Although these amendments did not impact the amount of
unearned revenue previously recorded by us, the timing of revenue recognition of these recorded unearned amounts has been changed to correspond with the terms of the amended agreements. These amendments or future amendments will affect the timing
and amount of revenues recognized in connection with these strategic relationships. To the extent we believe any such amendments cause or may cause the compensation to be received under an agreement to no longer be fixed and determinable, we limit
our revenue recognition to amounts received, excluding any future amounts not deemed fixed and determinable. As future amounts are subsequently received, such amounts are incorporated into our revenue recognition over the remaining term of the
agreement. As of September 30, 2001, our recorded basis in equity
securities was $35 million, including $10 million classified as "Marketable securities," $7 million classified as "Investments in equity-method investees," and $18 million classified as "Other equity investments."
31
"Unearned revenue"
decreased from $131 million at December 31, 2000 to $90 million at September 30, 2001. This decline in "Unearned revenue" is primarily due to the amortization of $95 million of previously unearned revenue and the write-off of $22 million
of unearned revenue due to the contract termination with Kozmo.com, offset by the receipt of cash consideration or recorded receivables and equity warrant of $77 million and $331 thousand, respectively. The revenue is termed "unearned"
because it is received in advance of our performance of certain services we have agreed to provide in the future. We have recognized revenue of $30 million and $95 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2001, respectively, that
was previously categorized as being "unearned." During the first quarter of 2001, we also recognized previously unearned revenue of $22 million associated with the termination of our commercial agreement with Kozmo.com, which was included
in "Other gains (losses), net" on the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Since services had not yet been performed under the contract, no amounts associated with the Kozmo.com commercial agreement were previously
recognized in "Net sales" during any period. Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results
The following risk factors and other information included in this Quarterly
Report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business
operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.
We have incurred significant losses since we began doing business. As of September 30, 2001, we had an accumulated deficit of $2.9 billion
and our stockholders' equity was a deficit of $1.5 billion. We are incurring substantial operating losses and, notwithstanding the recent performance of certain of our segments, we may continue to incur such losses for the foreseeable future.
As of September 30, 2001, we had indebtedness under senior discount notes, convertible notes, capitalized lease obligations and other asset financings
totaling approximately $2.2 billion. We make annual or semi-annual interest payments on the indebtedness under our senior discount notes and our two tranches of convertible notes, which are due in 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. We may incur
substantial additional debt in the future. Our indebtedness could limit our ability to: obtain necessary additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes in the future; plan for, or react
to, changes in technology and in our business and competition; and react in the event of an economic downturn. We may not be able to meet our debt service obligations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or obtain funds for required payments, or if we fail to comply with other
covenants in our indebtedness, we will be in default. In addition, our 6.875% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2010, also known as "PEACS," are denominated in Euros, not U.S. dollars, and the exchange ratio between the Euro and the U.S.
dollar is not fixed by the indenture governing the PEACS. Therefore, fluctuations in the Euro/U.S. dollar exchange ratio may adversely affect us. Furthermore, we have invested some of the proceeds from the PEACS in Euro-denominated cash equivalents
and marketable securities. Accordingly, as the Euro/U.S. dollar exchange ratio varies, cash equivalents and marketable securities, when translated, may differ materially from expectations.
The e-commerce market segments in which we compete are relatively new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. In addition, the market segments in which
we participate are intensely competitive and we have many competitors in different industries, including the Internet and retail industries.
32
Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger
customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. They may be able to secure merchandise from vendors on more favorable terms and may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing
or inventory policies. They also may be able to devote more resources to technology development and marketing than us. As these e-commerce market segments continue to grow, other companies may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. We also expect
that competition in the e-commerce channel will intensify. As various Internet market segments obtain large, loyal customer bases, participants in those segments may use their market power to expand into the market segments in which we operate. In
addition, new and expanded Web technologies may increase the competitive pressures on online retailers. The nature of the Internet as an electronic marketplace facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping and renders it inherently more
competitive than conventional retailing formats. This increased competition may reduce our operating profits or diminish our market segment share.
We may enter into strategic alliances with other companies through commercial agreements, joint
ventures, investments or business combinations. We have entered into transactions to provide access to portions of our e-commerce platform to third parties, like Toysrus.com, Borders Group, Inc., America Online, Inc., Circuit City Stores, Inc., and
Target Corporation, and we may enter into similar transactions in the future. In such transactions, we may perform services such as offering consumer products sold by us through syndicated stores such as allow third
parties to utilize our technology services such as search, browse and personalization; permit third parties to offer products or services through our Web site; and power third-party Web sites, provide fulfillment services, or both. These
arrangements are complex and will initially require intense personnel and resource commitments by us, which may constrain the number of such transactions we are able to enter into and may affect our ability to deliver services under the relevant
agreements. If we fail to implement successfully the various components of such arrangements, which may include fulfillment, customer service, inventory management, tax collection, and third party licensing of software, hardware and content, our
strategic alliance initiatives may not be viable. In addition, if the third party website, or product or services offering, is not successful, we may not receive all of the compensation we are otherwise due under the terms of the agreement. Although
we intend to enter into additional strategic alliances, we may be unable to enter into them on terms that are as favorable to us or at all. In addition, commercial agreements, joint ventures, investments and business combinations create risks such as:
We expect a disproportionate amount of our net sales to be realized during the fourth quarter of our
fiscal year. If we do not stock popular products in sufficient amounts and fail to meet customer demand, it could significantly impact our revenue and our future growth. If we overstock products, we may be required to take significant inventory
mark-downs or write-offs, which could reduce gross profits. A failure to optimize inventory
33
at our fulfillment centers will harm our shipping margins by requiring us to make partial shipments from one or more locations. In addition, we may experience a decline in our shipping margins
due to complimentary upgrades, split-shipments and additional long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely delivery for the holiday season. If too many customers access our Web sites within a short period of time due to increased holiday demand,
we may experience system interruptions that make our Web sites unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume of goods we sell and the attractiveness of our products and services. In addition, we may be
unable to adequately staff our fulfillment centers during these peak periods, and we, along with our customer service outsourcing partners, may be unable to adequately staff customer service centers. Our inventory balance increases substantially in advance of the Christmas holiday. Payments for
purchases of much of this inventory do not occur until the first quarter of the following fiscal year. Because we are paid for sales of product upon shipment, we anticipate an increase in available cash in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year,
followed by a decrease in the first quarter of our next fiscal year as we make payments for inventory purchased in the immediately preceding fiscal year.
Due to our limited operating history and the unpredictability of our industry, we may not be able to
accurately forecast our net sales or rate of growth. We base our current and future expense levels and our investment plans on estimates of future net sales and rate of growth. Our expenses and investments are to a large extent fixed. We may not be
able to adjust our spending quickly if our net sales fall short of our expectations. In addition, our revenue growth depends on the continued growth of demand for the products offered by us or our partners, and our business is affected by general economic and
business conditions throughout the world. A softening of demand, whether caused by changes in consumer preferences or a weakening of the U.S. or global economy, may result in decreased revenue growth. Recent terrorist attacks upon the U.S. have
added economic and consumer uncertainty that could adversely affect our revenue growth. In addition, as we grow, our further penetration of new and existing market segments may become more difficult. Increased security concerns could create delays
in and increase the cost of product shipments to and from us, which may decrease demand. Our historical Company-wide revenue growth may not be sustainable and our percentage growth rate may decrease in the future. Our revenues and operating results will also fluctuate for many other reasons,
including:
34
Finally, both seasonal
fluctuations in Internet usage and traditional retail seasonality are likely to affect our business. Internet usage generally slows during the summer months. Sales in almost all of our product groups, particularly toys and electronics, usually
increase significantly in the fourth calendar quarter of each year.
We have rapidly and significantly expanded our
operations and will endeavor to expand further to pursue growth of our product and service offerings and customer base. Such growth will continue to place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. We also need to
train and manage our employee base. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support and effectively manage our future operations. We may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage
required personnel, which may limit our growth. In
addition, we may not benefit in our newer market segments from the first-to-market advantage that we experienced in the online book channel. Our gross profits in our newer business activities may be lower than in our older business activities. In
addition, we may have limited or no experience in new product and service activities and our customers may not favorably receive our new businesses. In addition, to the extent we pursue strategic alliances to facilitate new product or service
activities, the alliances may not be successful. If any of this were to occur, it could damage our reputation and negatively impact revenue growth.
We depend on the continued services and performance of our senior management and other key
personnel, particularly Jeffrey P. Bezos, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. We do not have "key person" life insurance policies. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm
our business.
Customer access to our Web sites directly affects the volume of goods we
sell and thus affects our net sales. We experience occasional system interruptions that make our Web sites unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce our net sales and the attractiveness of our products and
services. To prevent system interruptions, we continually need to: add additional software and hardware; upgrade our systems and network infrastructure to accommodate both increased traffic on our Web sites and increased sales volume; and integrate
our systems. Our computer and communications
systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism and similar events. We do not have backup systems or a formal disaster recovery plan, and
we may have inadequate insurance coverage or insurance limits to compensate us for losses from a major interruption. Computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions could cause system interruptions, delays and loss of
critical data and could prevent us from providing services and accepting and fulfilling customer orders. If this were to occur, it could damage our reputation and be expensive to remedy.
We plan, over time, to expand our reach in international market segments. We have relatively
little experience in purchasing, marketing and distributing products or services for these market segments and may not benefit from any first-to-market advantages. It will be costly to establish international facilities and operations, promote our
brand internationally, and develop localized Web sites and stores and other systems. We may not succeed in these efforts. Our net sales from international market segments may not offset the expense of establishing and maintaining the related
operations and, therefore, these operations may never be profitable.
35
Our international sales and
related operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in selling abroad, including, but not limited to, risks with respect to:
As the international e-commerce channel continues to grow, competition will likely intensify. Local companies may have a substantial competitive advantage because of their greater
understanding of, and focus on, the local customer, as well as their more established local brand name recognition. In addition, governments in foreign jurisdictions may regulate e-commerce or other online services in such areas as content, privacy,
network security, copyright, encryption, taxation or distribution. We may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth in international market segments.
Beginning in the fall of 1999, we have entered into transactions to provide access to portions of our e-commerce platform to third
parties, like Toysrus.com, Borders Group, Inc., America Online, Inc., Circuit City Stores, Inc., and Target Corporation, and we may enter into similar transactions in the future. In such transactions, we may perform services such as offering
consumer products sold by us through syndicated stores such as allow third parties to utilize our technology services such as search, browse and personalization; permit third parties to offer products or services through our
Web site; and power third-party Web-sites, provide fulfillment services, or both. In exchange for the services we provide under these agreements, we receive one or a combination of any of the following: cash, equity securities of these companies,
additional Web site traffic or other benefits. The amount of compensation we receive under certain of these agreements is dependent on the volume of sales our strategic partner makes. In some cases, we have also made separate investments in a
strategic partner by making a cash payment in exchange for equity securities of that partner. As part of this program, we may in the future enter into additional agreements with existing strategic partners or new ones and may also make additional
investments. To the extent we have received equity securities as compensation, fluctuations in the value of such securities will impact our ultimate realization of cash value either positively or negatively. We hold several investments in third parties, primarily investments in our strategic partners, that are
accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method, we are required to record our ownership percentage of the income or loss of these companies as income or loss for us. We record these amounts generally one month in arrears for private
companies and three months in arrears for public companies. As of September 30, 2001, the carrying amount of several of our equity-method investees have been reduced to zero. The only remaining investees with carrying amounts are privately-held
companies. The companies in which we
36
have equity method investments are engaged in the Internet and e-commerce industries, are likely to experience large losses for the foreseeable future and may or may not be ultimately successful.
While the future losses we will record under the equity method are limited to the amount of our investment, we expect to record additional equity method losses in the future. Our investments in equity securities that are not accounted for under the
equity method are included in "Marketable securities" and "Other equity investments" on our balance sheet. We regularly review all of our investments in public and private companies for other-than-temporary declines in fair value. When we determine that the decline in fair value of an
investment below our accounting basis is other-than-temporary, we reduce the carrying value of the securities we hold and record a loss in the amount of any such decline. During the previous 12 months, we determined that the declines in value of
several of our investments in our strategic partners were other-than-temporary, and we recognized losses totaling $232 million (consisting of $34 million in the third quarter of 2000, $155 million in the fourth quarter of 2000, $36 million in the
first quarter of 2001, $5 million in the second quarter of 2001, and $2 million in the third quarter of 2001) to record these investments at their then current fair value. In addition, several of our strategic partners in which we also had an
investment have declared bankruptcy or liquidated. We had net
unrealized losses of $4 million on available-for-sale equity securities included in accumulated other comprehensive loss as of September 30, 2001, and have recorded equity-method losses of $28 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2001. In
recent quarters, companies in the Internet and e-commerce industries have experienced significant difficulties, including difficulties in raising capital to fund expansion or to continue operations. Because the companies in which we have investments
are part of the Internet and e-commerce industries, we may conclude in future quarters that the fair values of other of these investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline. In addition, if our strategic partners experience such
difficulties, we may not receive the consideration owed to us and the value of our investment may become worthless. As agreements with strategic partners expire or otherwise terminate, we may be unable to renew or replace these agreements on terms
that are as favorable to us. During 2000 and 2001, we amended
several of our agreements with certain of our strategic partners that reduced future cash proceeds to be received by us, shortened the term of our commercial agreements, or both. We may, in the future, enter into further amendments of our commercial
agreements. Although these amendments did not impact the amount of unearned revenue previously recorded by us, the timing of revenue recognition of these recorded unearned amounts has been changed to correspond with the terms of the amended
agreements. To the extent we believe any such amendments cause or may cause the compensation to be received under an agreement to no longer be fixed and determinable, we limit our revenue recognition to amounts received, excluding any future amounts
not deemed fixed and determinable. As future amounts are subsequently received, such amounts are incorporated into our revenue recognition over the remaining term of the agreement.
We are exposed to significant inventory risks as a result of seasonality, new product launches, rapid
changes in product cycles and changes in consumer tastes with respect to our products. In order to be successful, we must accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking or under stocking products. Demand for products, however, can change
significantly between the time inventory is ordered and the date of sale. In addition, when we begin selling a new product, it is particularly difficult to forecast product demand accurately. A failure to optimize inventory will harm our shipping
margins by requiring us to make split shipments from one or more locations, complementary upgrades, and additional long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely delivery. As a result of our agreements with Toysrus.com, Babysrus.com, and Target,
these parties will identify, buy, manage and bear the financial risk of inventory for their corresponding stores and merchandise. As a result, if any of these parties fail to forecast product demand or optimize inventory, we would receive reduced
service fees under the agreements and our business and reputation could be harmed. The acquisition of certain types of inventory, or inventory from certain sources, may require significant lead-time and prepayment, and such inventory may not be returnable. We
carry a broad selection and significant
37
inventory levels of certain products, such as consumer electronics, and we may be unable to sell products in sufficient quantities or during the relevant selling seasons. Our ability to receive inbound inventory efficiently or ship completed orders to
customers may be negatively impacted by inclement weather, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism or acts of God. Any one of the factors set forth above may require us to mark down or write off inventory.
If we do not successfully operate our fulfillment centers, it could significantly
limit our ability to meet customer demand. Most of our fulfillment centers are highly automated, and we have had limited experience with automated fulfillment centers. Because it is difficult to predict sales increases, we may not manage our
facilities in an optimal way, which may result in excess inventory, warehousing, fulfillment and distribution capacity. In January 2001, we announced our decision to close our fulfillment center in McDonough, Georgia and operate our fulfillment
center in Seattle, Washington on a seasonal basis.
We regard our trademarks, service marks,
copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology and similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license
agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our proprietary rights. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our products and
services are made available online. We also may not be able to acquire or maintain appropriate domain names in all countries in which we do business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar
proprietary rights. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or diminish the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. The protection of our intellectual property may
require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Third parties that license our proprietary rights may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or reputation. In addition, the steps we take to protect our
proprietary rights may not be adequate and third parties may infringe or misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks, trade dress, patents and similar proprietary rights. Other parties may claim that we infringed their proprietary rights. We have been
subject to claims, and expect to continue to be subject to legal proceedings and claims, regarding alleged infringement by us of the trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, may
result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against us or the imposition of damages that we must pay. We may need to obtain licenses from third parties who allege that we have infringed their rights, but
such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all.
We have a relatively short operating history and, as an e-commerce company, we have a rapidly evolving
and unpredictable business model. The trading price of our common stock fluctuates significantly. Trading prices of our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as:
38
Any of these events may cause our stock price to
rise or fall, and may adversely affect our business and financing opportunities. The recent volatility in our stock price could force us to increase our cash compensation to employees or grant larger stock option awards than we have historically, which could
hurt our operating results, or reduce the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders, or both. In the first quarter of 2001, we offered a limited non-compulsory exchange of employee stock options. This option exchange offer will result in
variable accounting treatment for stock options representing, at September 30, 2001, approximately 13 million shares of the Company's common stock. Variable accounting treatment will result in unpredictable stock-based compensation dependent on
fluctuations in quoted prices for the Company's common stock.
We are subject to general business regulations and
laws, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Such existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. These regulations may cover taxation, user
privacy, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts, consumer protection, and characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other
taxes, libel and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce. Unfavorable resolution of these issues may harm our business. In addition, many jurisdictions currently regulate "auctions" and "auctioneers" and may
regulate online auction services. Jurisdictions may also regulate consumer-to-consumer fixed price online markets, like zShops. This could, in turn, diminish the demand for our products and services and increase our cost of doing business.
In
accordance with current industry practice, we do not collect sales taxes or other taxes with respect to shipments of most of our goods into states other than Washington and North Dakota. Under our agreements with Babyrus.com, Target and Circuit
City, the strategic partner is the seller of record of the applicable merchandise and we are obligated to collect sales tax in most states in accordance with the strategic partner's instructions. We may enter into additional strategic alliances
requiring similar tax collection obligations. We collect Value Added Tax, or VAT, for products that are ordered on , and and that are shipped into European Union member countries. We also
collect Japanese consumption tax for products that are ordered on and that are shipped into Japan. Our fulfillment center and customer service center networks, and any future expansion of those networks, along with other
aspects of our evolving business, may result in additional sales and other tax obligations. One or more states or foreign countries may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on out-of-jurisdiction companies which engage in
e-commerce. A
39
successful assertion by one or more states or foreign countries that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of merchandise could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales,
decrease our ability to compete with traditional retailers and otherwise harm our business. Currently, decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect to sales made over the Internet.
Additionally, in 1998, Congress passed the Internet Tax Freedom Act, which imposed a three-year moratorium on state and local taxes upon Internet access, unless such taxes were in effect before October 1, 1998, and on discriminatory taxes on
e-commerce. This moratorium expired on October 21, 2001, and a risk exists that the moratorium will not be re-enacted. The imposition by state and local government of various taxes upon Internet commerce could create administrative burdens for us
and could decrease our future sales. Various countries are
currently evaluating their VAT positions on e-commerce transactions. It is possible that future VAT legislation in these and other countries or changes to our business model may result in additional VAT collection obligations and administrative
burdens.
Although we continue to increase our direct purchasing from manufacturers, we still source a significant amount of inventory from
relatively few vendors. During 2000, approximately 27% of all inventory purchases were made from three major vendors, of which Ingram Book Group accounts for over 10%. We do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with most of our vendors to
guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms or the extension of credit limits. Our current vendors may stop selling merchandise to us on acceptable terms. If that were the case, we may not be able to acquire merchandise from
other suppliers in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms.
Some of our products, such as toys, tools, hardware, computers, cell phones and
kitchen and houseware products, may expose us to product liability claims relating to personal injury, death or property damage caused by such products, and may require us to take actions such as product recalls. Our strategic partners also may sell
products that may indirectly increase our exposure to product liability claims. Although we maintain liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be
available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, some of our vendor agreements with our suppliers do not indemnify us from product liability.
A fundamental requirement for e-commerce is the secure
transmission of confidential information over public networks. Although we have developed systems and processes to prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches, failure to mitigate such fraud or breaches may impact our
financial results. The law relating to the liability of providers
of online payment services is currently unsettled. We guarantee payments made through Amazon Payments up to certain limits for both buyers and sellers, and we may be unable to prevent users of Amazon Payments from fraudulently receiving goods when
payment may not be made to a seller or fraudulently collecting payments when goods may not be shipped to a buyer. Our liability risk will increase as a larger fraction of our sellers use Amazon Payments. Any costs we incur as a result of liability
because of our guarantee of payments made through Amazon Payments or otherwise could harm our business. In addition, the functionality of Amazon Payments depends on certain third-party vendors delivering services. If these vendors are unable or
unwilling to provide services, Amazon Payments will not be viable (and our businesses that use Amazon Payments may not be viable).
40
Technology in the e-commerce industry changes rapidly. We may not be able to
adapt quickly enough to changing customer requirements and preferences and industry standards. Competitors often introduce new products and services with new technologies. These changes and the emergence of new industry standards and practices could
render our existing Web sites and proprietary technology obsolete.
Consumer use of the Internet as a medium for commerce is a recent phenomenon and is subject to
a high level of uncertainty. While the number of Internet users has been rising, the Internet infrastructure may not expand fast enough to meet the increased levels of demand. If use of the Internet as a medium for commerce does not continue to grow
or grows at a slower rate than we anticipate, our sales would be lower than expected and our business would be harmed.
We may be unable to prevent users of our Amazon
Marketplace, Auctions and zShops services from selling unlawful goods, or from selling goods in an unlawful manner. We may face civil or criminal liability for unlawful and fraudulent activities by our users. Any costs we incur as a result of
liability relating to the sale of unlawful goods, the unlawful sale of goods, the fraudulent receipt of goods or the fraudulent collection of payments could harm our business.
In running our Amazon Marketplace, Auctions and zShops services, we rely on sellers of goods to make accurate
representations and provide reliable delivery, and on buyers to pay the agreed purchase price. We do not take responsibility for delivery of payment or goods and while we can suspend or terminate the accounts of users who fail to fulfill their
delivery obligations to other users, we cannot require users to make payments or deliver goods. We do not compensate users who believe they have been defrauded by other users except through our guarantee program. Under the guarantee program,
fraudulent activities by our users, such as the fraudulent receipt of goods and the fraudulent collection of payments, may create liability for us. In addition, we are aware that governmental agencies are currently investigating the conduct of
online auctions and could require changes in the way we conduct this business.
ITEM 3. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE OF MARKET RISK We are exposed to market risk for the impact of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations and changes in the market values of our investments. As a matter of policy, we
do not enter into derivative transactions for trading or speculative purposes. Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk is set forth below and in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations--Liquidity and Capital Resources."
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. All of our cash
equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are designated as available for sale and, accordingly, are presented at fair value on our balance sheets. We generally invest our excess cash in A-rated or higher short- to intermediate-term fixed
income securities and money market mutual funds. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, and we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that have declined in
market value due to changes in interest rates.
41
For the full year 2000 and the nine months ended September 30, 2001, net sales from our internationally-focused Web sites
(, , , and ) accounted for 14% and 20% of consolidated revenues, respectively. Net sales generated from these Web sites, as well as most of the related expenses incurred, are
denominated in the functional currencies of the Web sites. Accordingly, the functional currency of our subsidiaries that operate these Web sites is the same as the functional currency of the Web sites. In addition, our foreign subsidiaries that
support these Web sites use their local currencies as their functional currencies. Results of operations from our foreign subsidiaries and our subsidiaries that operate our internationally-focused Web sites are exposed to foreign currency exchange
rate fluctuations as the financial results of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. As exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results, when translated, may differ materially from expectations. The effect
of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations for the year ended December 31, 2000, and nine months ended September 30, 2001 was not material. At September 30, 2001, we were also exposed to foreign currency risk related to our PEACS and Euro-denominated cash equivalents and marketable
securities ("Euro investments"). The PEACS have an outstanding principal balance of 690 million Euros ($628 million, based on the exchange rate as of September 30, 2001), and our Euro investments, classified as available-for-sale, had a
balance of 178 million Euros ($162 million, based on the exchange rate as of September 30, 2001). As the Euro/U.S. dollar exchange ratio varies, the value of our Euro investments, when translated, will fluctuate. Debt principal of 615 million Euros
is remeasured each period, which results in currency gains or losses that are recorded in the statement of operations, "Other gains (losses), net." We hedge the exchange rate risk on debt principal of 75 million Euros and a portion of the
interest payments using a cross-currency swap agreement. Under the swap agreement, we agreed to pay at inception and receive upon maturity 75 million Euros in exchange for receiving at inception and paying at maturity $67 million. In addition, we
agreed to receive in February of each year 27 million Euros corresponding with interest payments on 390 million Euros of the PEACS and, simultaneously, to pay $32 million. This agreement is cancelable, in whole or in part, at our option at no cost
on or after February 20, 2003 if our common stock price (converted into Euros) is greater than or equal to 84.883 Euros, the minimum conversion price of the PEACS. We account for the swap agreement as a cash flow hedge of the risk of exchange rate
fluctuations on the debt principal and interest. Gains and losses on the swap agreement are initially recorded in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss" and recognized in results of operations upon the recognition of the corresponding
currency losses and gains on the remeasurement of the PEACS.
As of September 30, 2001, our recorded basis in equity securities was $35 million, including $10 million classified as "Marketable
securities," $7 million classified as "Investments in equity-method investees," and $18 million classified as "Other equity investments." We invest in both private and public companies, including our business partners,
primarily for strategic purposes. At September 30, 2001, our investments in securities of publicly-held companies was $12 million, and our investments in securities of privately-held companies was $23 million. We have also received securities from
some of our strategic partners in exchange for services provided by us to those partners. These investments are accounted for under the equity method if they give us the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over an investee.
Some of our cost-method investments are in private companies and are accounted for at cost and others are in public companies and are accounted for as available-for-sale securities and recorded at fair value. We regularly review the carrying value
of our investments and identify and record losses when events and circumstances indicate that such declines in the fair value of such assets below our accounting basis are other-than-temporary. During the three and nine months ended September 30,
2001, we recorded non-cash impairment losses totaling $2 million and $43 million, respectively, to write-down several of our equity securities to fair value. All of these investments are in companies involved in the Internet and e-commerce
industries and their fair values are subject to significant fluctuations due to volatility of the stock market and changes in general economic conditions.
42
PART II. OTHER INFORMATION
ITEM 1. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS As previously reported, we have received informal inquiries from the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff ("SEC Staff") with respect to accounting treatment and
disclosures for some of our initial strategic partner transactions and have been cooperating with the SEC Staff in responding to those inquiries. We have reviewed our accounting treatment for the transactions with our independent auditors and the
SEC Staff, and believe our accounting treatment and disclosures were appropriate. As previously reported, on April 12, 2001, we received a request from the SEC Staff for the voluntary production of documents and information concerning, among other things,
previously reported sales of the Company's common stock by Jeffrey Bezos on February 2 and 5, 2001. We are cooperating with the SEC Staff's continuing inquiry. A number of purported class action complaints were filed by holders of Amazon.com equity and debt securities against the Company,
its directors and certain of its senior officers during the nine months ended September 30, 2001, in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington, alleging violations of the Securities Act of 1933 (the "1933
Act") and/or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "1934 Act"). On October 5, 2001, plaintiffs in the 1934 Act cases filed a consolidated amended complaint alleging that the Company, together with certain of its officers and
directors and certain third-parties, made false or misleading statements during the period from October 29, 1998 through July 23, 2001 concerning our business, financial condition and results, inventories, future prospects, and strategic partner
transactions. The 1933 Act complaint alleges that the defendants made false or misleading statements in connection with our February 2000 offering of the PEACS. The complaints seek recissionary and/or compensatory damages and injunctive relief
against all defendants. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing in these complaints and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in these matters. Depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could materially affect our business, future
results of operations, financial position or cash flows in a particular period. From time to time, we are subject to other legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business, including claims of alleged infringement of trademarks, copyrights,
patents and other intellectual property rights. We currently are not aware of any such legal proceedings or claims that we believe will have, individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or
operating results. I
TEM 2. CHANGES IN SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS None.
ITEM 3. DEFAULTS UPON SENIOR SECURITIES None.
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS None.
ITEM 5. OTHER INFORMATION None.
43
ITEM 6. EXHIBITS AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
None.
44
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
45
EXHIBIT INDEX
46