10-Q
1
v93801e10vq.htm
FORM 10-Q QUARTER ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2003
Amazon.Com, Inc.
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
Form 10-Q
Commission File No. 000-22513
Amazon.com, Inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its
Charter)
1200 12th Avenue South, Suite 1200,
Seattle, Washington 98144-2734
(Address and Telephone Number, Including Area
Code, of Registrant's Principal Executive
Offices)
Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:
None
Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:
Common Stock, par value $.01 per share
Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days. Yes th No o
Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act). Yes th No o
401,075,452
shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share outstanding as
of October 14, 2003
AMAZON.COM, INC.
FORM 10-Q
For the Three Months Ended September 30,
2003
INDEX
1
PART I. FINANCIAL
INFORMATION
AMAZON.COM, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in thousands, except per share
data)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements.
2
AMAZON.COM, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
OPERATIONS
(in thousands, except per share
data)
(unaudited)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements.
3
AMAZON.COM, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS
(in thousands)
(unaudited)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements.
4
AMAZON.COM, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(Continued)
(in thousands)
(unaudited)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements.
5
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
(unaudited)
We have prepared the accompanying consolidated
financial statements pursuant to the rules and regulations of
the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for
interim financial reporting. As used herein,
"Amazon.com," the "Company," "we,"
"our" and similar terms include Amazon.com, Inc. and
its wholly-owned subsidiaries, unless the context indicates
otherwise. These consolidated financial statements are unaudited
and, in our opinion, include all adjustments, consisting of
normal recurring adjustments and accruals necessary for a fair
presentation of the consolidated balance sheets, operating
results, and cash flows for the periods presented. Operating
results for the periods presented are not necessarily indicative
of the results that may be expected for the year ending
December 31, 2003 due to seasonal and other factors.
Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included
in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States
("GAAP") have been omitted in accordance with the
rules and regulations of the SEC. These consolidated financial
statements should be read in conjunction with the audited
consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes
included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2002. Certain prior period amounts have
been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.
The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of Amazon.com and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All
intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues
and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and
liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and
accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited to,
inventory valuation, depreciable lives, sales returns,
receivables valuation, restructuring-related liabilities,
incentive discount offers, valuation of investments, taxes, and
contingencies. Actual results could differ materially from those
estimates.
The weighted average shares used to calculate
earnings (loss) per share excludes the effect of the
weighted average number of outstanding shares subject to
repurchase or forfeiture ("restricted stock").
The effect of outstanding stock awards is
antidilutive for periods that we have a net loss and,
accordingly, is excluded from the calculation of diluted loss
per share. The dilutive effect of stock awards is included in
the calculation of weighted average shares for periods that we
have net income.
Effective January 1, 2002, we prospectively
changed our inventory costing to the first-in first-out
("FIFO") method of accounting. We determined this
change to be preferable under GAAP since, among other reasons,
it facilitates our record keeping process, significantly
improves our ability to provide cost-efficient fulfillment
services to third-party companies as part of our services
offering and results in increased consistency with others in our
industry. We received a letter of preferability for this change
in inventory costing from our independent auditors.
6
We have agreements to receive cash consideration
from certain of our vendors, including rebates and cooperative
marketing reimbursements. We generally presume amounts received
from our vendors are a reduction of the prices we pay for their
products, and therefore, we reflect such amounts as either a
reduction of "Cost of sales" on our consolidated
statements of operations, or, if the product inventory is still
on hand at the reporting date, it is reflected as a reduction of
"Inventories" on our consolidated balance sheets. When
we receive direct reimbursements for costs incurred by us in
selling the vendor's product or service, the amount we
receive is recorded as an offset to "Marketing" on our
consolidated statements of operations.
Vendor rebates are typically dependent upon
reaching minimum purchase thresholds. We evaluate the likelihood
of reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and
current year forecasts. When rebates can be reasonably
estimated, we record a portion of the rebate as we make progress
towards the purchase threshold. Our accounting treatment is
consistent with the conclusions reached in Emerging Issues Task
Force ("EITF") 02-16, Accounting by a Customer
(Including a Reseller) for Certain Consideration Received from a
Vendor.
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
("SFAS") No. 142, Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets, prescribes a two-phase process for
impairment testing of goodwill, which is performed once
annually, absent indicators of impairment. The first phase
screens for impairment, while the second phase (if necessary)
measures the impairment. We have elected to perform our annual
analysis during the fourth calendar quarter of each year. No
indicators of impairment were identified during the nine months
ended September 30, 2003. Additionally, in connection with
the sale of our mail-order toy catalog business for
$5 million in cash, we recorded a reduction of
approximately $2 million of associated goodwill during the
quarter ended September 30, 2003.
Other intangibles consist of the following (in
thousands):
The net carrying amount of intangible assets at
September 30, 2003 is scheduled to be fully amortized by
the end of 2004.
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities
includes, among other things, liabilities for gift certificates,
marketing activities, and workforce costs, including accrued
payroll, vacation, and other benefits.
Product sales, net of promotional discounts,
rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products
are shipped and title passes to customers. Retail items sold to
customers are made pursuant to a sales contract that provides
for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon our delivery to
the carrier, which is commonly referred to as "F.O.B.
Shipping Point." Return allowances, which reduce product
revenue by the Company's best estimate of expected product
returns, are estimated using historical experience.
7
Amounts billed to customers for outbound shipping
charges are included in "Net sales" and were
$77 million and $73 million for the three months ended
September 30, 2003 and 2002, and $235 million and
$244 million for the nine months ended September 30,
2003 and 2002.
We generally have three categories of stock-based
awards: restricted stock units, restricted stock, and stock
options. We account for stock-based awards under the intrinsic
value method, which follows the recognition and measurement
principles of Accounting Principles Board ("APB")
Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees, and related Interpretations. The intrinsic value
method of accounting results in compensation expense to the
extent option exercise prices are set below market prices on the
date of grant. Also, to the extent stock awards have been
subject to an exchange offer, other modifications, or
performance criteria, such awards are subject to variable
accounting treatment. Variable accounting treatment results in
expense or contra-expense recognition using the cumulative
expense method, calculated based on quoted prices of our common
stock and vesting schedules of underlying awards.
Since October 1, 2002, we grant restricted
stock units as our primary form of stock-based compensation;
however, in certain of our foreign jurisdictions, we continue to
grant stock options. Stock options granted after
December 31, 2002 are subject to variable accounting
treatment. Restricted stock units and restricted stock are
generally measured at fair value on the date of grant based on
the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common
stock. Such value is recognized as an expense over the
corresponding service period. To the extent restricted stock or
restricted stock units are forfeited prior to vesting, the
corresponding previously recognized expense is reversed as an
offset to "Stock-based compensation."
We record the employer portion of payroll tax
expense resulting from exercises of stock-based awards in
"Fulfillment," "Marketing," "Technology
and content," and "General and administrative" on
our consolidated statements of operations and do not include
such expenses in "Stock-based compensation."
Stock-based compensation includes matching contributions under
our 401(k) program.
Stock-based compensation consisted of the
following (in thousands):
We granted stock awards representing
0.3 million and 0.6 million shares of common stock
during the three months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002,
and 2 million shares of common stock during each of the
nine months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002. These awards
generally vest over service periods of between three and six
years. Common shares outstanding, which includes restricted
stock, plus shares underlying stock options and restricted stock
units totaled 433 million at September 30, 2003, an
increase of 1% compared with September 30, 2002.
8
The following table summarizes relevant
information as if the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS
No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation,
had been applied to all stock-based awards (in thousands, except
per share data):
The fair value for each award granted was
estimated at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes
option-pricing model, assuming no dividends and the following
assumptions:
The weighted average fair value of stock awards
(including restricted stock units) per share was $41.78 and
$15.27 for awards granted during the three months ended
September 30, 2003 and 2002, and $27.90 and $15.33 for
awards granted during the nine months ended September 30,
2003 and 2002.
Outstanding stock awards were as follows (in
thousands):
9
Our cash and marketable securities are summarized
as follows (at fair value, in thousands):
We have pledged a portion of our marketable
securities. See "Note 4 -- Commitments and
Contingencies."
Our long-term debt and other long-term
liabilities are summarized as follows (in thousands):
10
On October 24, 2003, we announced that on
November 24, 2003, we will redeem an aggregate principal
amount of $200 million of our 4.75% Convertible
Subordinated Notes. As provided in the underlying indenture, the
redemption price of $205.7 million represents a
$5.7 million (2.85%) premium over the face amount of the
4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes to be redeemed. We will
record a charge in the fourth quarter 2003, classified in
"Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and other," of
approximately $9 million related to the redemption,
consisting of the $5.7 million premium and approximately
$3 million in unamortized deferred issuance charges.
Accrued and unpaid interest of $3 million, from
August 1, 2003 through November 23, 2003, will also be
payable at redemption.
We currently lease office and fulfillment center
facilities and fixed assets under non-cancelable operating and
capital leases. Rental expense under operating lease agreements
was $13 million for each of the three months ended
September 30, 2003 and 2002, and $39 million and
$43 million for the nine months ended September 30,
2003 and 2002.
The following are our contractual commitments
associated with our indebtedness, lease obligations, marketing
agreements, and operational restructuring (in thousands):
11
See "Note 6 --
Restructuring-Related and Other" for additional information
on restructuring-related lease obligations.
We have pledged a portion of our marketable
securities as collateral for stand-by letters of credit that
guarantee certain of our contractual obligations and for real
estate lease agreements. The change in the total amount of
collateral pledged under these agreements is as follows (in
thousands):
On April 12, 2001, we received a request
from the SEC staff for the voluntary production of documents and
information concerning, among other things, previously reported
sales of our common stock by our Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer, Jeffrey P. Bezos, on February 2 and 5, 2001. We
have cooperated fully with the SEC staff's inquiry.
A number of purported class action complaints
were filed by holders of our equity and debt securities against
us, our directors, and certain of our senior officers during
2001, in the United States District Court for the Western
District of Washington, alleging violations of the Securities
Act of 1933 (the "1933 Act") and/or the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (the "1934 Act"). On
August 1, 2003, plaintiffs in the 1934 Act cases filed a
second consolidated amended complaint alleging that we, together
with certain of our officers and directors, made false or
misleading statements during the period from October 29,
1998 through October 23, 2001 concerning our business,
financial condition and results, inventories, future prospects,
and strategic alliance transactions. The 1933 Act complaint
alleges that the defendants made false or misleading statements
in connection with our February 2000 offering of the 6.875%
PEACS. The complaints seek recissionary and/or compensatory
damages and injunctive relief against all defendants. We dispute
the allegations of wrongdoing in these complaints and intend to
vigorously defend ourselves in these matters.
On October 29, 2002, Gary Gerlinger,
individually and on behalf of all other similarly situated
consumers in the United States who, during the period from
August 1, 2001 to the present, purchased books online from
either Amazon.com or Borders.com, instituted an action against
us and Borders in the United States District Court for the
Northern District of California. The complaint alleges that the
agreement pursuant to which an affiliate of Amazon.com operates
Borders.com as a co-branded site violates federal anti-trust
laws, California statutory law, and the common law of unjust
enrichment. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages,
including treble damages or statutory damages where applicable,
attorneys' fees, costs, and disbursements, disgorgement of
all sums obtained by allegedly wrongful acts, interest, and
declaratory relief. We dispute the plaintiff's allegations
of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this
matter.
In March 2003, we were served with a complaint
filed in the Chancery Court of Davidson County, Tennessee, by a
private litigant purportedly on behalf of the State of Tennessee
under the Tennessee False Claims Act. The complaint alleges that
we (along with other companies with which we have commercial
agreements) wrongfully failed to collect and remit sales and use
taxes for sales of personal property to
12
customers in Tennessee and knowingly created
records and statements falsely stating we were not required to
collect or remit such taxes. The complaint seeks injunctive
relief, unpaid taxes, interest, attorneys' fees, civil
penalties of up to $10,000 per violation, and treble damages
under Tennessee's False Claims Act. In July 2003, we
received a similar complaint filed in Cook County District
Court, Nevada, by the same private litigant alleging similar
claims with respect to sales and use taxes for sales of personal
property to customers in Nevada. In September 2003, we learned
that a similar complaint was filed by the same private litigant
in Illinois alleging similar claims with respect to sales and
use taxes for sales of personal property to customers in
Illinois. We are aware that the private litigant in this case
has filed similar actions against other retailers in other
states, and it is possible that we have been or will be named in
similar cases in other states as well. We do not believe that we
are liable under existing laws and regulations for any failure
to collect sales or other taxes relating to Internet sales and
intend to vigorously defend ourselves in these matters.
On July 17, 2003, Pinpoint, Inc. filed a
complaint for patent infringement in the United States District
Court for the Northern District of Illinois against us and
several other companies with which we have commercial
agreements. The complaint alleges that our personalization
technology infringes several patents obtained by Pinpoint and
seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages in an amount no less
than a reasonable royalty, prejudgment interest, and
attorneys' fees against all defendants. We dispute the
allegations of wrongdoing in this complaint and intend to
vigorously defend ourselves in this matter.
Depending on the amount and the timing, an
unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could
materially affect our business, future results of operations,
financial position, or cash flows in a particular period.
Comprehensive income (loss) was as follows (in
thousands):
Activity in other comprehensive income (loss)
relating to the Euro Currency Swap for the three and nine months
ended September 30, 2003 and 2002 was as follows:
At September 30, 2003, the remaining
cumulative unrealized loss associated with our Euro Currency
Swap, recorded to "Accumulated other comprehensive
income," was $13 million. In accordance with SFAS
No. 133, resulting from the termination of our Euro
Currency Swap, future reclassifications of cumulative
13
losses on the Euro Currency Swap from
"Accumulated other comprehensive income" to
"Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and other" will be
recorded using the effective interest method over the remaining
life of the 6.875% PEACS.
As previously disclosed, in the first quarter of
2001 we announced and began implementation of our operational
restructuring plan. The restructuring is complete; however, we
may adjust our restructuring-related estimates in the future, if
necessary. No restructuring-related expenses were incurred
during the three months or nine months ended September 30,
2003. Restructuring-related and other expenses were
$47 million for the nine months ended September 30,
2002 associated with the revision of our January 2001
restructuring estimates for ongoing lease obligations for our
facilities in Seattle, Washington and McDonough, Georgia.
Restructuring-related charges were as follows (in
thousands):
At September 30, 2003, the accrued liability
associated with restructuring-related and other charges was
$34 million and consisted of the following (in thousands):
14
Restructuring-related lease obligations are as
follows (in thousands):
Other income, net consisted of the following (in
thousands):
Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and other consisted
of the following (in thousands):
At September 30, 2003, the remaining
cumulative unrealized loss associated with our Euro Currency
Swap, recorded to "Accumulated other comprehensive
income," was $13 million. During the second quarter of
2003, we terminated our Euro Currency Swap and, although neither
party made cash payments to terminate, we recorded a non-cash
loss of $6 million to "Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS
and other" representing the remaining basis in our swap
asset. In accordance with SFAS No. 133, Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, this
accumulated loss will be amortized to "Remeasurement of
6.875% PEACS and other" over the life of the 6.875% PEACS.
If we redeem or otherwise restructure our
15
6.875% PEACS prior to maturity in 2010, any
remaining cumulative unrealized loss associated with the Euro
Currency Swap will be recorded as a charge to
"Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and other."
We have a 401(k) savings plan covering
substantially all of our employees, and eligible employees may
contribute through payroll deductions. Beginning in April 2003,
we began matching a portion of employee contributions using our
common stock. During the three and nine months ended
September 30, 2003, we issued 26,000 and 41,000 shares of
common stock in connection with matching contributions for the
401(k) savings plan.
We present segment information along the same
lines that our chief operating decision maker reviews our
operating results in assessing performance and allocating
resources. During the first quarter of 2003, our chief operating
decision maker began reviewing operating results along two
lines: North America and International. This change was prompted
by the increasing prominence and overall importance of
third-party sellers on our Websites, as well as how both capital
and human resources are allocated for technology and fulfillment
operations. We have aligned our organization with a primary
management objective of increasing overall unit sales volume,
regardless of whether a third party or the Company is the seller.
We measure operating results of our segments
using an internal performance measure of direct segment
operating expenses that excludes stock-based compensation,
amortization of other intangibles, and restructuring-related and
other charges, each of which are not allocated to segment
results. All other centrally-incurred operating costs are fully
allocated to segment results. There are no internal revenue
transactions between our reporting segments.
The North America segment consists of amounts
earned from retail sales of consumer products through
and (including from
third-party sellers), from North America focused Syndicated
Stores and mail-order catalogs, and from non-retail activities
such as North America focused Merchant.com, marketing, and
promotional agreements.
The International segment consists of amounts
earned from retail sales of consumer products through
internationally focused Websites, such as ,
, , and
(including from third-party sellers), from internationally
focused Syndicated Stores and from non-retail activities such as
internationally focused marketing and promotional agreements.
This segment includes export sales from ,
, , and
(including export sales from these sites to customers in the
U.S. and Canada), but excludes export sales from
and .
16
Information on reportable segments and
reconciliation to consolidated net income (loss) is as follows
(in thousands):
Three Months Ended September 30,
2003:
Three Months Ended September 30,
2002:
17
Nine Months Ended September 30,
2003:
Nine Months Ended September 30,
2002:
18
Forward-Looking Statements
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other
than statements of historical fact, including statements
regarding industry prospects or future results of operations or
financial position, made in this Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q are forward-looking. We use words such as
anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar
expressions to identify forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements reflect management's current
expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could
differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among
others, the rate of growth of the economy in general and of the
Internet and online commerce, customer spending patterns, world
events, the amount that we invest in new business opportunities
and the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to
customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as
compared with services, competition, risks of inventory
management, the degree to which we enter into commercial
agreements and strategic transactions and maintain and develop
commercial relationships, foreign exchange risks, seasonality,
international growth and expansion, and risks of fulfillment
throughput and productivity. These risks and uncertainties, as
well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our
actual results to differ significantly from management's
expectations, are described in greater detail in
"Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results,"
which, along with the following discussion, describes some, but
not all, of the factors that could cause actual results to
differ significantly from management's expectations.
Results of Operations
Critical Accounting Judgments
The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues
and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and
liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and
accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a company's
critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important
to the portrayal of the company's financial condition and
results of operations, and which require the company to make its
most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of
the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently
uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the
critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We
also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use
of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to
understanding our results. For additional information see
"Note 1 -- Accounting Policies," in
Item 1 of Part I, "Financial Statements," of
this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and
"Note 1 -- Description of Business and
Accounting Policies" in Item 8 of Part II,
"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," of our
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2002. Although we believe that our estimates,
assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon
information presently available. Actual results may differ
significantly from these estimates under different assumptions,
judgments, or conditions.
Significant Accounting Policies
Inventories, consisting of products available for
sale, are accounted for using the FIFO method, and are valued at
the lower of cost or market value. This valuation requires us to
make judgments, based on currently-available information, about
the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to
individual customers, returns to product vendors, or
liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each
disposition category. Based on this evaluation, we record a
valuation allowance to adjust the carrying amount of our
inventories to lower of cost or market value.
19
We recognize revenue from product sales or
services rendered when the following four revenue recognition
criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists,
delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the
selling price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is
reasonably assured.
We evaluate the criteria of EITF Issue
No. 99-19, Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal Versus
Net as an Agent, in determining whether it is appropriate to
record the gross amount of product sales and related costs or
the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are the
primary obligor in a transaction, are subject to inventory risk,
have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, or
have several but not all of these indicators, revenue is
recorded gross. If we are not the primary obligor and amounts
earned are determined using a fixed percentage, a fixed-payment
schedule, or a combination of the two, we generally record the
net amounts as commissions earned.
Product sales, net of promotional discounts,
rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products
are shipped and title passes to customers. Retail items sold to
customers are made pursuant to a sales contract that provides
for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon our delivery to
the carrier. Return allowances, which reduce product revenue by
our best estimate of expected product returns, are estimated
using historical experience.
We periodically provide incentive offers to our
customers to encourage purchases. Such offers include current
discount offers, such as percentage discounts off current
purchases, inducement offers, such as offers for future
discounts subject to a minimum current purchase, and other
similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted by our
customers, are treated as a reduction to the purchase price of
the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted
by our customers, are treated as a reduction to purchase price
based on estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are
estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement
offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are
presented as a net amount in "Net sales."
Commissions and per-unit fees received from
third-party sellers and amounts earned through our Merchant.com
program are recognized when the item is sold by the third-party
seller and our collectibility is reasonably assured. We record
an allowance for estimated refunds on such commissions using
historical experience.
We earn revenues from business-to-business
commercial agreements, including providing our technology
services such as search, browse and personalization; permitting
other businesses and individuals to offer products or services
through our Websites; and powering third-party Websites, either
with or without providing accompanying fulfillment services.
These commercial agreements also include miscellaneous marketing
and promotional agreements. As compensation for the services we
provide under these agreements, we generally receive cash. In
the past, we have accepted as compensation under these
arrangements equity securities, or a combination of equity
securities and cash. We measure the fair value of any equity
consideration when the agreement is executed or when forfeiture
or vesting provisions lapse. We generally recognize revenue from
these marketing and promotional services (including revenues
associated with non-refundable advance payments) on a
straight-line basis over the period during which we perform
services under these agreements, commencing at the launch date
of the service. If we receive non-refundable advance payments,
such amounts are deferred for revenue recognition purposes until
service commences. Equity-based revenue during the three months
ended September 30, 2003 was insignificant. We recorded
equity-based revenues of $2 million for the three months
ended September 30, 2002. Equity based revenues for the
nine months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002 were less
than $1 million and $12 million.
We have in the past, and may in the future, amend
our agreements with certain of the companies with which we have
commercial agreements to modify future cash proceeds to be
received by us, modify the service term of our commercial
agreements, or both. Although these amendments generally do not
affect the amount of unearned revenue previously recorded by us
(if any), the timing of future revenue recognition changes to
correspond with the terms of amended agreements. These
amendments or future amendments will affect the timing and
amount of revenues recognized in connection with these
commercial agreements. To the extent we
20
believe any such amendments cause or may cause
the compensation to be received under an agreement to no longer
be fixed or determinable, we limit our revenue recognition to
amounts received, excluding any future amounts not deemed fixed
or determinable. As future amounts are subsequently received,
such amounts are incorporated into our revenue recognition over
the remaining term of the agreement.
We have agreements to receive cash consideration
from certain of our vendors, including rebates and cooperative
marketing reimbursements. We generally presume amounts received
from our vendors are a reduction of the prices we pay for their
products and, therefore, we reflect such amounts as either a
reduction of "Cost of sales" on our consolidated
statements of operations, or if the product inventory is still
on hand at the reporting date, it is reflected as a reduction of
"Inventories" on our consolidated balance sheets. When
we receive direct reimbursements for costs incurred by us in
selling the vendor's product or service, the amount we
receive is recorded as an offset to "Marketing" on our
consolidated statements of operations.
Vendor rebates are typically dependent upon
reaching minimum purchase thresholds. We evaluate the likelihood
of reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and
current year forecasts. When rebates can be reasonably
estimated, we record a portion of the rebate as we make progress
towards the purchase threshold. Our accounting treatment is
consistent with the conclusions reached in EITF 02-16,
Accounting by a Customer (Including a Reseller) for Certain
Consideration Received from a Vendor.
SFAS No. 142 prescribes a two-phase process
for impairment testing of goodwill, which is performed once
annually, absent indicators of impairment. The first phase
screens for impairment, while the second phase (if necessary)
measures the impairment. We have elected to perform our annual
analysis during the fourth calendar quarter of each year. No
indicators of impairment were identified during the nine months
ended September 30, 2003. Additionally, in connection with
the sale of our mail-order toy catalog business, we recorded a
reduction of approximately $2 million of associated
goodwill.
Restructuring-related liabilities include
estimates for, among other things, anticipated disposition of
lease obligations. Key variables in determining such estimates
include anticipated timing of sublease rentals, estimates of
sublease rental payment amounts and tenant improvement costs,
and estimates for brokerage and other related costs. We
periodically evaluate and, if necessary, adjust our estimates
based on currently-available information.
Results of Operations
We present segment information along the same
lines that our chief operating decision maker reviews our
operating results in assessing performance and allocating
resources. During the first quarter of 2003, our chief operating
decision maker began reviewing operating results along two
lines: North America and International. This change was prompted
by the increasing prominence and overall importance of third
party sellers on our Websites, as well as how both capital and
human resources are allocated for technology and fulfillment
operations. We have aligned our organization with a primary
management objective of increasing overall unit sales volume,
regardless of whether a third party or the Company is the seller.
The North America segment includes amounts earned
from retail sales of consumer products through
and (including from third-party
sellers), from North America focused Syndicated Stores and
mail-order catalogs and from non-retail activities such as North
America focused Merchant.com, marketing, and promotional
agreements.
The International segment includes amounts earned
from retail sales of consumer products through internationally
focused Websites, such as , ,
, and
21
(including from third-party sellers),
from internationally focused Syndicated Stores, and from
non-retail activities such as internationally focused marketing
and promotional agreements. Our International segment includes
export sales from , ,
, and (including export
sales from these sites to customers in the U.S. and Canada), but
excludes export sales from and
.
Net sales include the selling price of consumer
products sold by us, less promotional discounts, Amazon-funded
rebates, and sales returns; outbound shipping charges billed to
our customers; commissions earned, consisting of fixed fees,
sales commissions, per-unit activity fees, or some combination
thereof, from third-party sellers on our sites, including
Merchant@ and Amazon Marketplace sellers; the selling price of
consumer products sold by us through our Syndicated Stores
program; amounts earned (fixed fees, sales commissions, per-unit
activity fees, or some combination thereof) in connection with
our Merchant.com program; and amounts earned for miscellaneous
marketing and promotional agreements.
Net sales were $1.13 billion and
$851 million for the three months ended September 30,
2003 and 2002, and $3.32 billion and $2.50 billion for
the nine months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002,
representing increases of 33% over each of the prior year
periods. Net sales for our North America segment were
$709 million and $587 million for the three months
ended September 30, 2003 and 2002, and $2.12 billion
and $1.79 billion for the nine months ended
September 30, 2003 and 2002, representing increases of 21%
and 18%. Net sales for our International segment were
$425 million and $264 million for the three months
ended September 30, 2003 and 2002, and $1.20 billion
and $710 million for the nine months ended
September 30, 2003 and 2002, representing increases of 61%
and 69%. Net sales benefited $29 million in comparison to
the third quarter of 2002, and $135 million in comparison
to the nine months ended September 30, 2002, due to changes
in foreign exchange rates as the U.S. Dollar weakened. The
future growth of our International segment may fluctuate
significantly with changes in foreign exchange rates. See
"Additional Factors That May Affect Future
Results -- We Have Foreign Exchange Risk."
Shipping revenue, which consists of outbound
shipping charges to our customers and excludes amounts earned
from third-party sellers, was $77 million and
$73 million for the three months ended September 30,
2003 and 2002, and $235 million and $244 million for
the nine months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002. The
decline in shipping revenue as a percentage of net sales, in
comparison to the prior year periods, is primarily due to the
increased acceptance by our customers of our free shipping
offers. These free shipping offers reduce shipping revenue as a
percentage of sales and reduce our gross margins on retail
sales. We view these shipping offers as an effective marketing
tool and intend to continue offering them.
Cost of sales consists of the purchase price of
consumer products sold by us, inbound and outbound shipping
charges to us, packaging supplies, and certain costs associated
with our service revenues. In instances where we incur
fulfillment center costs to ship products on behalf of
third-party sellers or provide customer service on their behalf,
such costs are classified as "Cost of sales" rather
than "Fulfillment" on the consolidated statements of
operations. All credit card fees and bad debt costs, including
those associated with our guarantee for certain third-party
seller transactions, are classified in "Fulfillment"
on the consolidated statements of operations.
Gross profit was $286 million and
$216 million for the three months ended September 30,
2003 and 2002, and $830 million and $657 million for
the nine months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002. Gross
margin was 25% for each of the three months ended
September 30, 2003 and 2002, and 25% and 26% for the nine
months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002.
Gross profit for our North America segment was
$201 million and $155 million for the three months
ended September 30, 2003 and 2002, and $578 million
and $498 million for the nine months ended
September 30, 2003 and 2002. Gross margin was 28% and 26%
for our North America segment during the
22
three months ended September 30, 2003 and
2002, and 27% and 28% for the nine months ended
September 30, 2003 and 2002.
Gross profit for our International segment was
$85 million and $61 million for the three months ended
September 30, 2003 and 2002, and $252 million and
$159 million for the nine months ended September 30,
2003 and 2002. Gross margin was 20% and 23% for our
International segment during the three months ended
September 30, 2003 and 2002, and 21% and 22% for the nine
months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002.
The increases in gross profit in comparison with
the prior periods correspond with increases in unit sales,
including those by third-party sellers, offset by our
year-around free shipping offers and lower prices for customers.
The decline in gross margin for the nine months ended
September 30, 2003 in comparison to the prior year is
primarily the result of our year-round free shipping offers and
lower prices for customers, partially offset by increases in
higher-margin sales by third parties and improvements in vendor
pricing. Generally, our gross margins fluctuate based on several
factors, including our mix of sales during the period, sales
volumes by third-party sellers, competitive pricing decisions,
changes in vendor pricing, and general efforts to reduce prices
for our customers over time, as well as the extent to which our
customers accept our free shipping offers. Gross profit
benefited $6 million in comparison to the third quarter of
2002, and $29 million in comparison to the nine months
ended September 30, 2002, due to changes in foreign
exchange rates as the U.S. Dollar weakened.
Sales of products by third-party sellers continue
to increase. Since revenues from these sales are recorded as a
net amount, they result in lower revenues but higher gross
margins per unit. To the extent product sales by third-party
sellers continue to increase, we anticipate improvement in gross
margin, offset to the extent we offer additional or broader
price reductions, free shipping offers, and other promotions.
Shipping activity resulted in losses of
$27 million and $10 million for the three months ended
September 30, 2003 and 2002 and losses of $81 million
and $10 million for the nine months ended
September 30, 2003 and 2002. Losses from shipping primarily
reflect the increased acceptance by our customers of our free
shipping offers, offset in part by cost savings from
efficiencies in our outbound shipping. We continue to measure
our shipping results relative to their effect on our overall
financial results, with the viewpoint that free shipping offers
are an effective marketing tool. We intend to continue offering
these alternatives, which will reduce shipping revenue as a
percentage of sales and negatively affect gross margins.
Fulfillment costs represent those costs incurred
in operating and staffing our fulfillment and customer service
centers, including costs attributable to receiving, inspecting,
and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing
customer orders for shipment; credit card fees and bad debt
costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain
third-party seller transactions; and responding to inquiries
from customers. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid to
third-parties that assist us in fulfillment and customer service
operations. Certain of our fulfillment-related costs that are
incurred on behalf of other businesses, such as Toysrus.com,
Inc. and Target Corporation, are classified as cost of sales
rather than fulfillment. Fulfillment costs were
$107 million and $90 million for the three months
ended September 30, 2003 and 2002, representing 9% and 11%
of net sales and $318 million and $266 million for the
nine months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002, representing
10% and 11% of net sales. The increase in fulfillment costs in
comparison with the prior year primarily corresponds with sales
volume. The improvement in fulfillment costs as a percentage of
net sales results from improvements in productivity and
accuracy, the increase in units fulfilled which leverages the
fixed-cost portion of our fulfillment network, efficiencies
gained through utilization of fulfillment services provided by
third parties, a decline in customer service contacts per order
resulting from improvements in our operations, and enhancements
to our customer self-service features available on our Websites.
These improvements were offset, in part, by credit card fees
associated with third-party seller transactions, which represent
a significant percentage relative to commission amounts earned,
and as a result, negatively affect fulfillment as a percentage
of net sales.
23
Marketing expenses consist of advertising;
on-line marketing, including amounts paid under our Syndicated
Stores and Associates programs; public relations expenditures;
and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in
marketing and selling activities. Marketing expenses, net of
co-operative marketing reimbursements, were $29 million and
$27 million for the three months ended September 30,
2003 and 2002, representing 3% of net sales in both periods, and
$82 million and $88 million for the nine months ended
September 30, 2003 and 2002, representing 2% and 4% of net
sales. To the extent co-operative marketing reimbursements
decline in future periods, we may incur additional expenses to
continue certain promotions or elect to reduce or discontinue
them. Declines in expense for the nine months ended
September 30, 2003 over the corresponding period in the
prior year, for marketing-related activities, reflect our
efforts to cut ineffective marketing programs, as well as
reduced rates charged to us for some online marketing
activities. These decreases are partially offset by increased
investment in marketing channels considered most effective in
driving incremental net sales, such as our Associates program
and other variable on-line marketing agreements. Our Associates
program enables participating Websites to make our products
available to their users with fulfillment performed by us. We
provide to our customers free shipping alternatives, and
although the effect of these shipping offers are reflected in
gross profit and does not directly affect marketing expenses, we
view these offers as an effective marketing tool. We intend to
continue offering these free shipping alternatives indefinitely.
Technology and content expenses consist
principally of payroll and related expenses for development,
editorial, systems, and telecommunications operations personnel;
systems and telecommunications infrastructure; and costs of
acquired content, including freelance reviews. Technology and
content expenses were $54 million and $53 million for
the three months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002,
representing 5% and 6% of net sales, and $156 million and
$167 million for the nine months ended September 30,
2003 and 2002, representing 5% and 7% of net sales. The decline
in absolute dollars spent in comparison with the prior year, for
the nine month period, primarily reflects efficiency
improvements in our systems infrastructure, as well as improved
expense management and general cost reductions in some expense
categories. This decline was partially offset during the three
months ended September 30, 2003 as we continued to invest
in technology by hiring additional software engineers. We expect
to continue investing in technology and improvements to our
Websites, which may include, but are not limited to, hiring
additional employees, offering additional Website features and
product categories to our customers, and implementing additional
commercial relationships, as well as potentially continuing our
international expansion.
General and administrative expenses consist of
payroll and related expenses for executive, finance, and
administrative personnel, human resources, professional fees,
and other general corporate expenses. General and administrative
expenses were $22 million and $19 million for the
three months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002,
representing 2% of net sales in each period, and
$65 million and $59 million for the nine months ended
September 30, 2003 and 2002, representing 2% of net sales
in each period.
24
Stock-based compensation consisted of the
following (in thousands):
We grant restricted stock units as our primary
form of stock-based compensation; however, in certain of our
foreign jurisdictions, we continue to grant stock options. Stock
options granted after December 31, 2002 are subject to
variable accounting treatment. Unless subject to variable
accounting treatment, restricted stock units, as well as
restricted stock, are measured at fair value on the date of
grant based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price
of our common stock. Such value is recognized as an expense over
the corresponding service period. To the extent restricted stock
or restricted stock units are forfeited prior to vesting, the
corresponding previously recognized expense is reversed as an
offset to "Stock-based compensation."
We record the employer portion of payroll tax
expense resulting from exercises of stock-based awards in
"Fulfillment," "Marketing," "Technology
and content," and "General and administrative" on
our consolidated statements of operations and do not include
such expenses in "Stock-based compensation."
Stock-based compensation includes matching contributions under
our 401(k) program.
Using the following hypothetical market prices of
our common stock above and below our September 30, 2003
closing price of $48.43, our stock-based compensation expense
for the three months ended Sept 30, 2003 would have been
affected by variable accounting treatment as follows (in
thousands, except percentages and per share amounts):
If at the end of any quarter the quoted price of
our common stock is lower than the quoted price at the end of
the previous quarter, or to the extent previously-recorded
amounts relate to unvested portions of options that are
subsequently cancelled, compensation expense associated with
variable accounting will be recalculated using the cumulative
expense method and may result in a net benefit to our results of
operations.
We granted stock awards representing
0.3 million and 0.6 million shares of common stock
during the three months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002,
and 2 million shares of common stock during each of the
nine months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002. These awards
generally vest over service periods of between
25
three and six years. Common shares outstanding,
which includes restricted stock, plus shares underlying stock
options and restricted stock units totaled 433 million at
September 30, 2003, an increase of 1% compared with
September 30, 2002.
Outstanding stock awards were as follows (in
thousands):
As previously disclosed, in the first quarter of
2001 we announced and began implementation of our operational
restructuring plan. The restructuring is complete; however, we
may adjust our restructuring-related estimates in the future, if
necessary. No restructuring-related expenses were incurred
during the three or nine months ended September 30, 2003.
Restructuring-related and other expenses were $47 million
for the nine months ended September 30, 2002 associated
with the revision of our January 2001 restructuring estimates
for ongoing lease obligations for our facilities in Seattle,
Washington and McDonough, Georgia.
Cash payments resulting from our operational
restructuring were $3 million and $8 million for the
three months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002, and
$23 million and $34 million for the nine months ended
September 30, 2003 and 2002. In December 2002, we reached a
termination agreement with the landlord of our leased
fulfillment center facility in McDonough, Georgia. This
agreement resulted in $12 million of cash payments in the
first quarter of 2003, including $8 million associated with
the termination agreement and $4 million associated with
restoration costs. No further payments are required relating to
the McDonough, Georgia facility. Included in our estimate of
future cash payments associated with our January 2001
restructuring are estimated sublease cash receipts of
$45 million, of which, at September 30, 2003,
$15 million are covered by sublease agreements. We
estimate, based on currently available information, the
remaining net cash outflows associated with our
restructuring-related commitments will be as follows (in
thousands):
26
Our chief operating decision maker reviews our
segment operating results based on a measure of segment
operating profit or loss that excludes stock-based compensation,
amortization of other intangibles, and restructuring-related and
other charges, each of which is not allocated to segment
results. All other centrally-incurred operating costs are fully
allocated to segment results. There are no internal revenue
transactions between our reporting segments. See
"Note 10 -- Segment Information," in
Item 1 of Part I, "Financial Statements" for
additional information, including a reconciliation of segment
results to "Net loss" as reported under GAAP.
Our North America segment operating income was
$63 million and $26 million for the three months ended
September 30, 2003 and 2002, representing an increase of
137%, and $169 million and $97 million for the nine
months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002, representing an
increase of 73%. This improvement primarily results from
increasing revenues, including amounts earned from sales by
third parties, and leveraging our direct cost structure relative
to sales growth.
Our International segment operating income was
$11 million and $1 million for the three months ended
September 30, 2003 and 2002. Our International segment
operating income was $40 million for the nine months ended
September 30, 2003 as compared to an operating loss of
$19 million for the nine months ended September 30,
2002. These improvements primarily resulted from revenue growth
of 61% and 69% for the three and nine months ended
September 30, 2003. Also contributing to the improvement in
our International segment operating income was leverage in our
direct cost structure relative to sales growth. International
segment operating income benefited $1 million in comparison
to the third quarter of 2002 due to changes in foreign exchange
rates as the U.S. Dollar weakened.
Our income from operations was $52 million
for the three months ended September 30, 2003 and our loss
from operations was $10 million for the three months ended
September 30, 2002. Our income from operations was
$133 million for the nine months ended September 30,
2003 and our loss from operations was $6 million for the
nine months ended September 30, 2002. The improvement in
operating results in comparison with the prior year was
attributable to increasing revenues and leveraging our direct
cost structure relative to sales growth. Income from operations
benefited $1 million and $8 million in comparison to
the three and nine months ended September 30, 2002 due to
changes in foreign exchange rates as the U.S. Dollar
weakened.
Net interest expense was $25 million and
$30 million for the three months ended September 30,
2003 and 2002, and $84 million and $90 million for the
nine months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002. Interest
income was $4 million and $6 million for the three
months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002, and
$17 million for each of the nine months ended
September 30, 2003 and 2002. Interest income fluctuates
with prevailing interest rates and the average balance of
invested funds. Interest expense was $30 million and
$36 million for the three months ended September 30,
2003 and 2002, a decrease of $6 million primarily due to
the second quarter 2003 redemption of our 10% Senior Discount
Notes, offset by the negative effect on interest expense
associated with our 6.875% PEACS as the U.S. Dollar
weakened in comparison to the Euro. Interest Expense was
$101 million and $107 million for the nine months
ended September 30, 2003 and 2002. Interest expense is
primarily related to our 6.875% PEACS, 4.75% Convertible
Subordinated Notes, and our 10% Senior Discount Notes. In
addition, the recent termination of our Euro Currency Swap will
make future interest expense more volatile.
27
Other income, net consisted of the following (in
thousands):
Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and other consisted
of the following (in thousands):
Each period the remeasurement of our 6.875% PEACS
from Euros to U.S. Dollars results in gains or losses
recorded to "Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and other,"
on our consolidated statements of operations.
During the second quarter of 2003, we redeemed
our 10% Senior Discounts Notes due 2008 ("10% Senior
Discount Notes") for $277 million, consisting of
principal repayment of $264 million and a 5% premium of
$13 million. Included in our second quarter results and our
results for the nine months ended September 30, 2003 is a
charge of $15 million to "Remeasurement of 6.875%
PEACS and other" representing the 5% premium and
$2 million of remaining deferred issuance charges.
Additionally, we paid $2 million to holders of our 10%
Senior Discount Notes for interest accrued between May 1,
2003 and May 28, 2003. The interest payment was recorded to
"Interest expense" on the consolidated statement of
operations for our second quarter results and our results for
the nine months ended September 30, 2003.
At September 30, 2003, the remaining
cumulative unrealized loss associated with our Euro Currency
Swap, recorded to "Accumulated other comprehensive
income," was $13 million. During the second quarter of
2003, we terminated our Euro Currency Swap and, although neither
party made cash payments to terminate, we recorded a non-cash
loss of $6 million to "Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS
and other" representing the remaining basis in our swap
asset. In accordance with SFAS No. 133, Accounting
for
28
Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities, this accumulated loss will
be amortized to "Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and
other" over the life of the 6.875% PEACS. If we redeem or
otherwise restructure our 6.875% PEACS prior to maturity in
2010, any remaining cumulative unrealized loss associated with
the Euro Currency Swap will be recorded as a charge to
"Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and other."
No equity-method losses were recorded during the
third quarter of 2003 since our basis in equity-method
investments was reduced to zero as of March 31, 2003.
Equity-method losses were $0.6 million for the three months
ended September 30, 2002, and $0.4 million and
$3 million for the nine months ended September 30,
2003 and 2002. Equity-method losses are only recorded until the
underlying investments are reduced to zero.
We have provided for current and deferred
U.S. federal, state, and foreign income taxes for the
current and all prior periods presented. Current and deferred
income taxes were provided with respect to jurisdictions where
certain of our subsidiaries produce taxable income. As of
September 30, 2003, we have recorded a net deferred tax
asset of $3 million, classified in "Other
assets," which consists primarily of certain state
jurisdiction net operating loss carryforwards. We have provided
a valuation allowance for the remainder of our deferred tax
asset, consisting primarily of net operating loss carryforwards,
because of uncertainty regarding its realization.
At September 30, 2003, we had net operating
loss carryforwards of approximately $2.9 billion related to
U.S. federal, state, and foreign jurisdictions. Utilization
of net operating loss carryforwards, which begin to expire at
various times starting in 2010, may be subject to certain
limitations under Sections 382 and 1502 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 and other limitations under state and
foreign tax laws. Additionally, approximately $230 million
of capital loss carryforwards begins to expire in 2005.
Approximately $1.6 billion of our net operating loss
carryforwards relate to tax deductible stock-based compensation
in excess of amounts recognized for financial reporting
purposes. To the extent that net operating loss carryforwards,
if realized, relate to stock-based compensation recorded for tax
purposes but not financial reporting purposes, the resulting tax
benefits will be recorded to stockholders' equity, rather
than to results of operations.
Net income was $16 million and net loss was
$35 million for the three months ended September 30,
2003 and 2002. Net loss was $38 million and
$152 million for the nine months ended September 30,
2003 and 2002. Year over year improvements during the third
quarter and year-to-date periods of 2003 primarily resulted from
improvements in operating income offset by losses on the
remeasurement of our 6.875% PEACS from Euros to
U.S. Dollars.
Although we reported net income for the third
quarter of 2003, we believe that this positive net income result
should not be viewed as a material positive event and is not
necessarily predictive of future results for a variety of
reasons. For example, we are unable to forecast the effect on
our future reported results of certain items, including the gain
or loss associated with the remeasurement of our 6.875% PEACS
that results from fluctuations between the U.S. Dollar and
the Euro and stock-based compensation associated with variable
accounting treatment. These items represented significant
charges during the first, second, and third quarters of 2003 and
may result in significant charges or gains in future periods.
Regulation G, "Conditions for Use of
Non-GAAP Financial Measures," and other provisions of the
1934 Act define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain
non-GAAP financial information. We believe that certain of our
financial measures which meet the definition of a non-GAAP
financial measure are important supplemental information to
investors. We provide: "consolidated segment operating
income (loss)," "pro forma net income (loss),"
"pro forma net earnings (loss) per share," and
"free cash flow."
29
We use these non-GAAP financial measures for
internal managerial purposes, when publicly providing guidance
on possible future results, and as a means to evaluate
period-to-period comparisons. These non-GAAP financial measures
are used in addition to and in conjunction with results
presented in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial
measures should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP
financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an
additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when
viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying
reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures,
provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends
affecting our business. Management strongly encourages investors
to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in
their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.
Because non-GAAP financial measures are not
standardized, it may not be possible to compare these financial
measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures
having the same or similar names. For example, certain companies
disclose a financial measure of earnings before certain charges
such as interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization,
commonly referred to as EBITDA. We considered the use of EBITDA
as a supplemental performance measure to GAAP, but believe
consolidated segment operating income (loss) and pro forma
net income (loss) are superior for our Company as certain
periodic costs associated with our invested capital, such as
fixed asset depreciation expense and amortization of software
development costs, and certain costs associated with our capital
structure, such as interest expense, are relevant and important
factors affecting our management decisions. For information
about our financial results as reported in accordance with GAAP,
see Item 8 of Part II, "Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2002 and in Item 1 of
Part 1, "Financial Statements," on this
Form 10-Q. For a quantitative reconciliation of our
non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP
financial measures, see "Reconciliation Tables" below.
Consolidated Segment Operating Income
(Loss)
We measure operating results of our segments
using an internal performance measure of direct segment
operating expenses that excludes:
These operating expense line items are not
allocated to segment results, and all other centrally-incurred
operating costs are fully allocated to segment results. The sum
of our individual segment results is consolidated segment
operating income (loss), which we reconcile to GAAP operating
income (loss). Pursuant to SEC staff interpretations of
Regulation G, when presented in our financial statement
footnotes, consolidated segment operating income is a GAAP
financial measure; however, since we also present this financial
measure outside the context of our financial statement
footnotes, we have included this financial measure in our
discussion of non-GAAP financial measures.
We use consolidated segment operating income
(loss), and ratios based on it, to manage and evaluate our
business operations and overall financial performance. Our
management evaluates consolidated segment income (loss) because
it excludes certain cash and non-cash items that are either
beyond our immediate control or that we believe are not
characteristic of our underlying business operations for the
period in which they are recorded, or both.
We exclude stock-based compensation for the
following reasons:
30
We record the employer portion of payroll tax
expense resulting from exercises of stock-based awards in
"Fulfillment," "Marketing," "Technology
and content," and "General and administrative" on
our consolidated statements of operations and do not include
such expenses in "Stock-based compensation."
We exclude "Amortization of other
intangibles" for the following reasons:
We exclude restructuring-related and other
expenses, which are cash and non-cash amounts, for the following
reasons:
If, in the future, we incur impairment losses on
our goodwill, such charges would be excluded from consolidated
segment operating income (loss) since they would be non-cash,
and not in the immediate control of management. We have elected
to perform our annual analysis during the fourth calendar
quarter of each year. No indicators of impairment were
identified during the nine months ended September 30, 2003.
Consolidated segment operating income
(loss) has certain limitations. First, because it excludes
"Stock-based compensation," the financial measure does
not include all expenses primarily related to our workforce. We
compensate for this limitation by providing supplemental
information about stock-based compensation on the face of our
consolidated statements of operations and in the footnotes to
our financial statements. We also provide supplemental
information about outstanding stock-based awards, including
their dilutive effect on shareholders, in the footnotes to our
financial statements. See "Note 1 --
Accounting Policies" in Item 1 of Part I,
"Financial Statements" for presentation of our
stock-based compensation expense calculated on a consistent
basis for all awards using the fair value method as prescribed
under SFAS No. 123, as well as total outstanding
stock-based awards and related activity.
31
Second, consolidated segment operating income
(loss) excludes "Restructuring-related and
other." For companies that periodically undergo
restructuring events, excluding such costs from performance
measures could provide an incomplete summary of ongoing costs
that would affect future cash flows. However, we compensate for
this limitation by disclosing cash flow measures, including
operating cash flow, that incorporate all ongoing cash
obligations associated with our January 2001 restructuring event
and by providing disclosure of future estimated cash flows and
remaining commitments associated with this event. See
"Note 6 -- Restructuring-Related and
Other," in Item 1 of Part I, "Financial
Statements." There can be no assurance that we will not
undertake another restructuring event in the future that would
affect future cash flows. If we have a restructuring event in
the future, we will re-evaluate our decision to exclude such
charges from our consolidated segment operating income
(loss) based on those future facts and circumstances at
that time.
Pro Forma Net Income (Loss)
Pro forma net income (loss), including the
related pro forma net earnings (loss) per share, which we
reconcile to net income (loss) and net earnings
(loss) per share, excludes, in addition to the line items
described above as excluded from consolidated segment operating
income (loss), the following line items on our consolidated
statements of operations:
We use pro forma net income (loss), and ratios
based on it, to manage and evaluate our business operations and
overall financial performance. Our decision to use this
financial measure is due to the fact that pro forma net income
(loss) excludes certain cash and non-cash items that are
either beyond our immediate control or are not characteristic of
our underlying business operations for the period in which they
are recorded, or both.
See "Consolidated Segment Operating
Income -- Excluded Items" for an explanation of
"Stock-based compensation," "Amortization of
other intangibles," and "Restructuring-related and
other," and "Impairment of goodwill."
The majority of "Remeasurement of 6.875%
PEACS and other" consists of gains or charges due to our
quarterly remeasurement of the principal of our 6.875% PEACS
from Euros to U.S. Dollars. We exclude the effect of these
periodic remeasurements from our pro forma net income
(loss) because the ultimate cash effect resulting from
changes in exchange rates is inherently uncertain. These gains
or charges would only affect near-term cash flows if we redeem
or, in certain cases, restructure, our 6.875% PEACS in the next
several years, rather than over a longer term or at maturity in
2010. Because these charges and gains vary based on exchange
rates between the U.S. Dollar and Euro, these amounts are
beyond our immediate control and are difficult to predict for
future periods. Additionally, this line item includes
$15 million of losses associated with the redemption of our
10% Senior Discount Notes and $6 million of losses
associated with the termination of our Euro Currency Swap, each
of which occurred in the second quarter of 2003.
We exclude equity in losses of equity-method
investees, net, because it generates potential non-cash gains or
losses, which are based on the financial results of other
companies that we do not manage or control and are difficult to
predict. In addition, we believe these non-cash gains and losses
are not indicative of our financial or operating performance.
Finally, in recent quarters, these amounts represented
insignificant charges and, absent
32
future investments, we expect this trend to
continue. In the third quarter 2003, we recorded no equity
method losses or gains.
We exclude cumulative effect of change in
accounting principle because it generates non-cash charges,
which we believe are not indicative of our financial or
operating performance.
Pro forma net income (loss) has the same
limitations as consolidated segment operating income. See
"Consolidated Segment Operating Income --
Limitations of Consolidated Segment Operating Income"
above. In addition, when the 6.875% PEACS are retired, whether
by early redemption or restructuring or at maturity in 2010, the
foreign currency effect of changes in the exchange ratio between
the U.S. Dollar and the Euro will result in a cash effect.
We compensate for this limitation by valuing the 6.875% PEACS at
fair value on our consolidated balance sheets and including that
fair value in our summary of commitments in the notes to our
financial statements. See "Note 3 --
Long-Term Debt and Other," and
"Note 4 -- Commitments and
Contingencies" in Item 1 of Part I,
"Financial Statements."
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow, which we reconcile to "Net
cash provided by (used in) operating activities," is cash
flow from operations reduced by "Purchases of fixed assets,
including internal-use software and Website development."
We use free cash flow, and ratios based on it, to conduct and
evaluate our business because, although it is similar to cash
flow from operations, we believe it is a more conservative
measure of cash flows since purchases of fixed assets are a
necessary component of ongoing operations. In limited
circumstances where proceeds from sales of fixed assets exceed
purchases, free cash flow would exceed cash flow from
operations. However, since we do not anticipate selling
significant portions of fixed assets, we expect free cash flow
to be less than operating cash flows.
Free cash flow has limitations due to the fact
that it does not represent the residual cash flow available for
discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not
incorporate payments made on capital lease obligations.
Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as
a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows.
33
Reconciliation Table
The following is a reconciliation of our non-GAAP
measures to the most comparable GAAP measures for the three
months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002 (in thousands,
expect per share data). Interim reconciliations are consistent
with full-year presentation.
34
The following is a reconciliation of our non-GAAP
measures to the most comparable GAAP measures for the nine
months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002 (in thousands,
expect per share data). Interim reconciliations are consistent
with full-year presentation.
35
Since our cash flows are affected by the
seasonality of our business, we have also provided the following
reconciliation of our non-GAAP measure of free cash flow on a
trailing-twelve month basis (in thousands).
Guidance
Fourth quarter of 2003 net sales are expected to
be between $1.76 billion and $1.91 billion, or grow
between 23% and 34%, compared with fourth quarter of 2002. For
the full year 2004, net sales are expected to be between $5.75
billion and $6.25 billion. However, any such projections
are subject to substantial uncertainty. See Item 2 of
Part 1, "Business -- Additional Factors That
May Affect Future Results."
36
Assuming among other things, and solely for
purposes of this estimate, that we do not record any revisions
to our restructuring-related estimates and that the closing
price of our common stock on December 31, 2003 is identical
to the closing price of $48.43 on September 30, 2003,
operating income for the fourth quarter of 2003 is expected to
be between $110 million and $140 million, and, for the
full year of 2004, to be between $315 million and
$415 million. However, any such projections are subject to
substantial uncertainty. See Item 2 of Part I,
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations -- Additional
Factors That May Affect Future Results." In addition, our
GAAP operating projections are based on an assumption about our
future stock price performance, which is required to estimate
stock-based compensation and is difficult to accurately predict.
Fourth quarter of 2003 consolidated segment
operating income is expected to be between $125 million and
$155 million compared with fourth quarter of 2002. For the
full year 2004, consolidated segment operating income is
expected to be between $375 million and $475 million
compared to 2003. However, any such projections are subject to
substantial uncertainty. See Item 2 of Part 1,
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations -- Additional
Factors That May Affect Future Results."
Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash,
cash equivalents, and marketable securities. Our cash and cash
equivalents balance was $666 million and $738 million,
and our marketable securities balance was $398 million and
$563 million at September 30, 2003 and
December 31, 2002. Combined cash, cash equivalents, and
marketable securities were $1.06 billion and
$1.30 billion at September 30, 2003 and
December 31, 2002. In the fourth quarter of 2003, our cash,
cash equivalents and marketable securities balance will be
impacted by the redemption of an aggregate principal amount of
$200 million of our 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes
for redemption payments totaling $206 million plus accrued
and unpaid interest.
We have pledged a portion of our marketable
securities as collateral for standby letters of credit that
guarantee certain of our contractual obligations and for real
estate lease agreements. The change in the total amount of
collateral pledged under these agreements was as follows (in
thousands):
As of September 30, 2003, our principal
commitments consisted of long-term indebtedness totaling
$2.08 billion related primarily to our 6.875% PEACS and
4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes; trade payables of
$499 million; and accrued expenses and other liabilities of
$236 million, which includes current restructuring-related
obligations of $12 million. In October 2003, we announced
the partial redemption of our 4.75% Convertible Subordinated
Notes in the fourth quarter of 2003 for redemption payments
totaling $206 million, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
Additionally, we are scheduled under certain of our long-term
debt obligations to make periodic interest payments through 2010
in the aggregate of $714 million, which will be reduced to
$665 million following this partial redemption of our 4.75%
Convertible Subordinated Notes, and are obligated under
operating leases and commitments for advertising and promotional
arrangements in the aggregate of $344 million and
$4 million, respectively.
37
The following are our contractual commitments
associated with our indebtedness, lease obligations, marketing
agreements, and operational restructuring (in thousands):
Restructuring-related lease obligations are as
follows (in thousands):
Net cash provided in operating activities was
$37 million and $38 million for the three months ended
September 30, 2003 and 2002, and net cash used in operating
activities was $89 million and $198 million for the
nine months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002. We typically
increase our inventory levels at the end of our third quarter in
support of anticipated fourth quarter holiday sales volumes. The
seasonal nature of our business in relation to the holiday
shopping season, together with the terms we have arranged with
our vendors, generally results in settlement of our holiday
season obligations during the first quarter of the following
year. This seasonal effect results in large net cash inflows
from our operations during the fourth calendar quarter of each
year and large net cash outflows from our operations during the
first calendar quarter of each year. For the trailing-twelve
months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002, net cash provided
by operating activities was $284 million and
$151 million. Operating cash flows and free cash flows can
be volatile
38
and are sensitive to many factors, including
changes in working capital. Working capital at any specific
point in time is subject to many variables, including world
events, seasonality, the timing of expense payments, discounts
offered by vendors, and vendor payment terms.
Net cash used in investing activities was
$60 million and net cash provided by investing activities
was $11 million for the three months ended
September 30, 2003 and 2002. The primary activities
affecting these cash flows are investment management activities
(e.g., purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable
securities), and purchases and sales of fixed assets. During the
three months ended September 30, 2003, net purchases of
marketable securities were $50 million. Additionally,
purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software
costs, were $15 million and proceeds from the sale of our
mail-order toy catalog business were $5 million. During the
three months ended September 30, 2002, net sales of
marketable securities were $22 million and purchases of
fixed assets, including internal-use software costs, were
$11 million. Net cash provided by investing activities was
$143 million and net cash used in investing activities was
$85 million for the nine months ended September 30,
2003 and 2002. During the nine months ended September 30,
2003, net sales of marketable securities were $167 million
and purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software
costs, were $29 million. For the nine months ended
September 30, 2002, net purchases of marketable securities
were $62 million and purchases of fixed assets, including
internal-use software costs, were $24 million. Net cash
provided by investing activities was $107 million compared
to cash used in investing activities of $318 million for
the trailing-twelve months ended September 30, 2003 and
2002. During the trailing-twelve months ended September 30,
2003, net sales of marketable securities were $146 million
and purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software
costs, were $44 million. For the trailing-twelve months
ended September 30, 2002, net purchases of marketable
securities were $281 million and purchases of fixed assets,
including internal-use software costs, were $31 million
Cash provided by financing activities was
$38 million and $2 million during the three months
ended September 30, 2003 and 2002. The primary activities
affecting these cash flows are cash proceeds from exercises of
stock options, repayment of long-term debt, and repayment of
capital lease obligations. During the three months ended
September 30, 2003 and 2002, cash proceeds from exercises
of stock options were $41 million and $6 million, and
repayments of capital lease obligations were $3 million and
$4 million. Cash used by financing activities was
$155 million compared to cash provided by financing
activities of $44 million during the nine months ended
September 30, 2003 and 2002. During the nine months ended
September 30, 2003 and 2002, cash proceeds from exercises
of stock options were $133 million and $56 million,
and repayments of capital lease obligations were
$10 million and $12 million. During the nine months
ended September 30, 2003, repayment of long-term debt was
$277 million. Cash used by financing activities was
$92 million compared to cash provided by financing
activities of $42 million during the trailing-twelve months
ended September 30, 2003 and 2002. During the
trailing-twelve months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002,
cash proceeds from exercises of stock options were
$198 million and $58 million, repayments of capital
lease obligations were $13 million and $17 million.
During the trailing-twelve months ended September 30, 2003,
repayment of long-term debt was $277 million. We expect
cash proceeds from exercises of stock options to decline over
time as we plan to issue restricted stock units as our primary
vehicle for stock-based awards.
We believe that current cash, cash equivalents
and marketable securities balances will be sufficient to meet
our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next
12 months. However, any projections of future cash needs
and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See
"Additional Factors that May Affect Future Results."
We continually evaluate opportunities to sell additional equity
or debt securities, obtain credit facilities from lenders,
repurchase common stock, pay dividends, or repurchase,
refinance, or otherwise restructure our long-term debt for
strategic reasons or to further strengthen our financial
position. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt
securities could result in additional dilution to our
stockholders. In addition, we will, from time to time, consider
the acquisition of or investment in complementary businesses,
products, services, and technologies, which might affect our
liquidity requirements or cause us to issue additional equity or
debt securities. There can be no assurance that financing will
be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all.
39
Additional Factors That May Affect Future
Results
The following risk factors and other information
included in this Quarterly Report should be carefully
considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not
the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not
presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also
may impair our business operations. If any of the following
risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating
results, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.
We have incurred significant losses since we
began doing business. As of September 30, 2003, we had an
accumulated deficit of $3.05 billion and our
stockholders' equity was a deficit of $1.16 billion.
We have incurred substantial operating losses since our
inception, and we may continue to incur such losses for the
foreseeable future.
As of September 30, 2003, we had total
long-term indebtedness under our convertible notes,
capitalized-lease obligations, and other asset financings of
$2.08 billion (including $200 million related to the
portion of our 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes that we
announced we will redeem in the fourth quarter of 2003). We make
annual or semi-annual interest payments on the indebtedness
under our two tranches of convertible notes, which are due in
2009 and 2010. We may incur substantial additional debt in the
future. Our indebtedness could limit our ability to obtain
necessary additional financing for working capital, capital
expenditures, debt service requirements, or other purposes in
the future; to plan for, or react to, changes in technology and
in our business and competition; and to react in the event of an
economic downturn.
There is no guarantee that we will be able to
meet our debt service obligations. If we are unable to generate
sufficient cash flow or obtain funds for required payments, or
if we fail to comply with covenants in our indebtedness, we will
be in default.
The market segments in which we compete are
rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and we have many
competitors in different industries, including both the retail
and e-commerce services industries.
Many of our current and potential competitors
have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater
brand recognition, and significantly greater financial,
marketing, and other resources than we have. They may be able to
secure merchandise from vendors on more favorable terms and may
be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Competitors
in both the retail and e-commerce services industries also may
be able to devote more resources to technology development and
marketing than us.
Competition in the e-commerce channel may
intensify. Other companies in the retail and e-commerce service
industries may enter into business combinations or alliances
that strengthen their competitive positions. As various Internet
market segments obtain large, loyal customer bases, participants
in those segments may expand into the market segments in which
we operate. In addition, new and expanded Web technologies may
further intensify the competitive nature of online retail. The
nature of the Internet as an electronic marketplace facilitates
competitive entry and comparison shopping and renders it
inherently more competitive than conventional retailing formats.
This increased competition may reduce our sales, operating
profits, or both.
We may enter into commercial agreements,
strategic alliances, and other business relationships with other
companies. We have entered into agreements to provide e-commerce
services to other businesses and we plan to enter into similar
agreements in the future, including as part of our merchants@,
syndicated stores, and merchant.com initiatives. Under such
agreements, we may perform services such as: providing our
technology services such as search, browse, and personalization;
permitting other businesses and individuals to
40
offer products or services through our Websites;
and powering third-party Websites, either with or without
providing accompanying fulfillment services. These arrangements
are complex and require substantial personnel and resource
commitments by us, which may constrain the number of such
agreements we are able to enter into and may affect our ability
to integrate and deliver services under the relevant agreements.
If we fail to implement, maintain, and develop successfully the
various components of such commercial relationships, which may
include fulfillment, customer service, inventory management, tax
collection, payment processing, licensing of third party
software, hardware, and content, and engaging third parties to
perform hosting and other services, these initiatives may not be
viable. The amount of compensation we receive under certain of
these agreements is dependent on the volume of sales that the
other company makes. Therefore, if the other business's
Website or product or services offering is not successful, we
may not receive all of the compensation we are otherwise due
under the agreement or may not be able to maintain the
agreement. Moreover, we may not be able to succeed in our plans
to enter into additional commercial relationships and strategic
alliances on favorable terms.
As our commercial agreements expire or otherwise
terminate, we may be unable to renew or replace these agreements
on comparable terms, or at all. In the past, we amended several
of our commercial agreements to reduce future cash proceeds to
be received by us, shorten the term of our commercial
agreements, or both. Some of our agreements involve high margin
services, such as marketing and promotional agreements, and as
such agreements expire they may be replaced, if at all, by
agreements involving lower margin services. In addition, several
past commercial agreements were with companies that experienced
business failures and were unable to meet their obligations to
us. We may in the future enter into further amendments of these
agreements or encounter other parties that have difficulty
meeting their contractual obligations to us, which could
adversely affect our operating results.
Our present and future third-party services
agreements, other commercial agreements, and strategic alliances
create additional risks such as:
Our present and future acquisitions, business
combinations, joint ventures and investments create additional
risks such as:
In the past, we have entered into commercial
agreements with other companies, including strategic alliances
whereby we perform certain e-commerce services, and in exchange
for our services we received cash, equity securities of these
companies, and/or additional benefits, such as Website traffic.
The amount of compensation we receive under certain of these
agreements is dependent on the volume of sales made by the other
company. In some cases, we have also made separate investments
in the other company by making a cash payment in exchange for
equity securities of that company. We may make similar
investments in the future. To the extent we have received equity
securities as compensation, fluctuations in the value of such
securities will affect our ultimate realization of amounts we
have received as compensation for services.
In the past, we amended several of our commercial
agreements to reduce future cash proceeds to be received by us,
shorten the term of our commercial agreements, or both. We may
in the future enter into further amendments of our commercial
agreements. Although these amendments did not affect the amount
of
41
unearned revenue previously recorded by us (if
any), the timing of revenue recognition of these recorded
unearned amounts has been changed to correspond with the terms
of the amended agreements. To the extent we believe any such
amendments cause or may cause the compensation to be received
under an agreement to no longer be fixed or determinable, we
limit our revenue recognition to amounts received, excluding any
future amounts not deemed fixed or determinable. As future
amounts are subsequently received, such amounts are incorporated
into our revenue recognition over the remaining term of the
agreement.
Our investments in equity securities are included
in "Marketable securities" and "Other equity
investments" on our consolidated balance sheets. We
regularly review all of our investments in public and private
companies for other-than-temporary declines in fair value. When
we determine that the decline in fair value of an investment
below our accounting basis is other-than-temporary, we reduce
the carrying value of the securities we hold and record a loss
in the amount of any such decline. In recent years, securities
of companies in the Internet and e-commerce industries have
experienced significant difficulties. We may conclude in future
quarters that the fair values of our investments have
experienced additional other-than-temporary declines. As of
September 30, 2003, our recorded basis in equity securities
was $19 million, including $6 million classified as
"Marketable securities" and $13 million
classified as "Other equity investments."
We expect a disproportionate amount of our net
sales to be realized during the fourth quarter of our fiscal
year. If we do not stock popular products in sufficient amounts
or fail to have sources to timely restock popular products, such
that we fail to meet customer demand, it could significantly
affect our revenue and our future growth. If we overstock
products, we may be required to take significant inventory
markdowns or write-offs, which could reduce gross profits. A
failure to optimize inventory in our U.S. fulfillment network
will harm our shipping margins by requiring us to make long-zone
shipments or partial shipments from one or more locations.
Orders from each of our internationally focused Websites are
fulfilled primarily from a single fulfillment center, and we
have only a limited ability to reroute orders to third parties
for drop-shipping. We may experience a decline in our shipping
margins due to complimentary upgrades, split-shipments, and
additional long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely
delivery, especially for the holiday season. If the other
businesses on whose behalf we perform inventory fulfillment
services deliver product to our fulfillment centers in excess of
forecasts, we may be unable to secure sufficient storage space
and may be unable to optimize our fulfillment centers. If too
many customers access our Websites within a short period of time
due to increased holiday or other demand, we may experience
system interruptions that make our Websites unavailable or
prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce
the volume of goods we sell and the attractiveness of our
products and services. In addition, we may be unable to
adequately staff our fulfillment centers during these peak
periods and third parties that provide fulfillment services to
our customers may be unable to meet the seasonal demand.
Finally, we, along with our customer service outsourcers, may be
unable to adequately staff customer service centers.
We generally have payment terms with our vendors
that extend beyond the amount of time necessary to collect
proceeds from our customers. As a result of holiday sales, at
December 31 of each year, our cash, cash equivalents, and
marketable securities balances reach their highest level (other
than as a result of cash flows provided by investing and
financing activities). This operating cycle results in a
corresponding increase in accounts payable. Our accounts payable
balance will decline during the first three months following
year-end, which will result in a decline in the amount of cash,
cash equivalents, and marketable securities on hand.
Due to our limited operating history, our
evolving business model and the unpredictability of our
industry, we may not be able to accurately forecast our rate of
growth. We base our current and future expense levels and our
investment plans on estimates of future net sales and rate of
growth. Our expenses and investments are to a large extent
fixed. We may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough
if our net sales fall short of our expectations.
Our revenue and operating profit growth depends
on the continued growth of demand for the products offered by us
or our sellers, and our business is affected by general economic
and business conditions
42
throughout the world. A softening of demand,
whether caused by changes in consumer preferences or a weakening
of the U.S. or global economies, may result in decreased revenue
or growth. Terrorist attacks and armed hostilities create
economic and consumer uncertainty that could adversely affect
our revenue or growth. Such events could create delays in, and
increase the cost of, product shipments to and from us, which
may decrease demand. Revenue growth may not be sustainable and
our company-wide percentage growth rate may decrease in the
future.
Our net sales and operating results will also
fluctuate for many other reasons, including:
Finally, both seasonal fluctuations in Internet
usage and traditional retail seasonality are likely to affect
our business. Internet usage generally slows during the summer
months, and sales in almost all of our product groups,
particularly toys and electronics, usually increase
significantly in the fourth calendar quarter of each year.
The results of operations of our
internationally-focused Websites are exposed to foreign exchange
rate fluctuations as their financial results are translated from
the local currency into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation. As
exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results, when
translated, may differ materially from expectations.
In addition, our 6.875% PEACS are denominated in
Euros, not U.S. Dollars. When we periodically remeasure the
principal of the 6.875% PEACS based on fluctuations in the Euro/
U.S. Dollar exchange ratio, we will record non-cash gains
or losses in "Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and other"
on our consolidated statements of operations. Furthermore, we
hold cash equivalents and marketable securities in Euros,
British Pounds and Japanese Yen. Accordingly, if the
U.S. Dollar strengthens compared to these currencies, cash
equivalents and marketable securities balances, when translated,
may be materially less than expected and vice versa.
43
We have rapidly and significantly expanded our
operations and will endeavor to expand further to pursue growth
of our product and service offerings and customer base. Such
growth will continue to place a significant strain on our
management, operational, and financial resources. We also need
to hire, train and manage our employee base. Our current and
planned personnel, systems, procedures, and controls may not be
adequate to support and effectively manage our future
operations, especially as we employ personnel in multiple
geographic locations. We may not be able to hire, train, retain,
motivate, and manage required personnel, which may limit our
growth.
In addition, we do not expect to benefit in our
newer market segments from the first-to-market advantage that we
experienced in the online book channel. Our gross profits in our
newer business activities may be lower than in our older
business activities. In addition, we may have limited or no
experience in new product and service activities and our
customers may not favorably receive our new businesses. To the
extent we pursue commercial agreements and/or strategic
alliances to facilitate new product or service activities, the
agreements and/or alliances may not be successful. If any of
this were to occur, it could damage our reputation and
negatively affect revenue growth.
We depend on the continued services and
performance of our senior management and other key personnel,
particularly Jeffrey P. Bezos, our President, Chief Executive
Officer and Chairman of the Board. We do not have "key
person" life insurance policies. The loss of any of our
executive officers or other key employees could harm our
business.
Customer access to our Websites directly affects
the volume of goods we sell and the services we offer and thus
affects our net sales. We experience occasional system
interruptions that make our Websites unavailable or prevent us
from efficiently fulfilling orders or providing services to
third parties, which may reduce our net sales and the
attractiveness of our products and services. If we are unable to
continually add additional software and hardware and upgrade in
an effective manner our systems and network infrastructure, it
could cause system interruption and adversely affect our
operating results.
Our computer and communications systems and
operations could be damaged or interrupted by fire, flood, power
loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquakes, acts
of war or terrorism, acts of God, computer viruses, physical or
electronic break-ins, and similar events or disruptions. Any of
these events could cause system interruption, delays, and loss
of critical data, and could prevent us from accepting and
fulfilling customer orders. Should this occur, it would make our
product offerings less attractive to our customers and our
service offerings less attractive to third parties. While we do
have backup systems for certain aspects of our operations, our
systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery
planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. In
addition, we may have inadequate insurance coverage or insurance
limits to compensate us for losses from a major interruption. If
any of this were to occur, it could damage our reputation and be
expensive to remedy.
We plan, over time, to continue to expand our
reach in international market segments. We have relatively
little experience in purchasing, marketing, and distributing
products or services for these market segments and may not
benefit from any first-to-market advantages. It is costly to
establish international facilities and operations, promote our
brand internationally and develop localized Websites, stores,
and other systems. We may not succeed in these efforts. Our net
sales from international market segments may not offset the
expense of establishing and maintaining the related operations
and, therefore, these operations may not be profitable on a
sustained basis.
44
Our international sales and related operations
are subject to a number of risks inherent in selling abroad,
including, but not limited to, risks with respect to:
As the international e-commerce channel continues
to grow, competition will likely intensify. Local companies may
have a substantial competitive advantage because of their
greater understanding of, and focus on, the local customer, as
well as their more established local brand name recognition. In
addition, governments in foreign jurisdictions may regulate
e-commerce or other online services in such areas as content,
privacy, network security, copyright, encryption, taxation, or
distribution. We may not be able to hire, train, retain,
motivate, and manage required personnel, which may limit our
growth in international market segments.
We are exposed to significant inventory risks as
a result of seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes in
product cycles and changes in consumer tastes with respect to
our products. In order to be successful, we must accurately
predict these trends and avoid overstocking or under-stocking
products. Demand for products, however, can change significantly
between the time inventory is ordered and the date of sale. In
addition, when we begin selling a new product, it is
particularly difficult to forecast product demand accurately. A
failure to optimize inventory within our fulfillment network
will harm our shipping margins by requiring us to make split
shipments from one or more locations, complimentary upgrades,
and additional long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely
delivery. As a result of our Merchants@ program relationships
with Toysrus.com, Babiesrus.com, Target, and other companies,
these parties identify, buy, manage, and bear the financial risk
of inventory obsolescence for their corresponding stores and
merchandise. As a result, if any of these parties fail to
forecast product demand or optimize inventory, we would receive
reduced service fees under the agreements and our business and
reputation could be harmed.
The acquisition of certain types of inventory, or
inventory from certain sources, may require significant
lead-time and prepayment, and such inventory may not be
returnable. We carry a broad selection and significant inventory
levels of certain products, such as consumer electronics, and we
may be unable to sell products in sufficient quantities or
during the relevant selling seasons.
Any one of the inventory risk factors set forth
above may adversely affect our operating results.
45
If we do not successfully operate our fulfillment
centers, it could significantly limit our ability to meet
customer demand. Because it is difficult to predict demand, we
may not manage our facilities in an optimal way, which may
result in excess or insufficient inventory, and warehousing,
fulfillment, and distribution capacity. A failure to optimize
inventory in our U.S. fulfillment network will harm our
shipping margins by requiring us to make long-zone shipments or
partial shipments from one or more locations. Orders from each
of our internationally focused Websites are fulfilled primarily
from a single fulfillment center, and we have only a limited
ability to reroute orders to third parties for drop-shipping. We
may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment centers and
we, along with our customer service outsourcers, may be unable
to adequately staff customer service centers. Finally, our
ability to receive inbound inventory efficiently or ship
completed orders to customers may be negatively affected by a
number of factors, including dependence on a limited number of
shipping companies, inclement weather, fire, flood, power loss,
earthquakes, labor disputes, acts of war or terrorism, or acts
of God.
Third parties either drop-ship or otherwise
fulfill an increasing portion of our customers' orders, and
we are increasingly reliant on the reliability, quality, and
future procurement of their services. Under some of our
commercial agreements, we maintain the inventory of other
companies in our fulfillment centers, thereby increasing the
complexity of tracking inventory in and operating our
fulfillment centers. Our failure to properly handle such
inventory or the inability or failure of these other companies
to accurately forecast product demand would result in unexpected
costs and other harm to our business and reputation.
We regard our trademarks, service marks,
copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary
technology, and similar intellectual property as critical to our
success, and we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent law,
trade secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license
agreements with our employees, customers, partners, and others
to protect our proprietary rights. Effective trademark, service
mark, copyright, patent, and trade secret protection may not be
available in every country in which our products and services
are made available online.
We also may not be able to acquire or maintain
appropriate domain names in all countries in which we do
business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may
not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. We
may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain
names that are similar to, infringe upon or diminish the value
of our trademarks and other proprietary rights.
Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary
rights is inherently difficult, and we may not be able to
determine the existence or extent of any such unauthorized use.
The protection of our intellectual property may require the
expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources.
Moreover, we cannot be certain that the steps we take to protect
our intellectual property will adequately protect our rights or
that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire
equivalent or superior technology or other intellectual property
rights.
Third parties that license our proprietary rights
may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary
rights or reputation. In addition, the steps we take to protect
our proprietary rights may not be adequate and third parties may
infringe or misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks, trade
dress, patents, and similar proprietary rights. Other parties
may claim that we infringed their proprietary rights. We have
been subject to, and expect to continue to be subject to claims,
and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement by us of
the patents, trademarks, and other intellectual property rights
of third parties. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, may
result in the expenditure of significant financial and
managerial resources, injunctions against us or the imposition
of damages that we must pay. We may need to obtain licenses from
third parties who allege that we have infringed their rights,
but such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to us
or at all. In addition, we may not be able to obtain or utilize
on terms which are favorable to us, or at all, licenses or other
rights with respect to intellectual property we do not own in
providing e-commerce services to other businesses and
individuals under commercial agreements.
46
We have a relatively short operating history and,
as an e-commerce company, we have a rapidly evolving and
unpredictable business model. The trading price of our common
stock fluctuates significantly. Trading prices of our common
stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and
factors, such as:
Any of these events may cause our stock price to
rise or fall and may adversely affect our business and financing
opportunities.
Future volatility in our stock price could force
us to increase our cash compensation to employees or grant
larger stock awards than we have historically, which could hurt
our operating results or reduce the percentage ownership of our
existing stockholders, or both. In the first quarter of 2001, we
offered a limited non-compulsory exchange of employee stock
options. This option exchange offer resulted in variable
accounting treatment for certain of our stock options.
Additionally, all options granted on or after January 1,
2003 are subject to variable accounting treatment. Variable
accounting treatment will result in unpredictable stock-based
compensation expense dependent on fluctuations in quoted prices
for our common stock. In late 2002, we implemented a restricted
stock unit plan, which will be our primary vehicle for
stock-based compensation going forward. Restricted stock and
restricted stock units are measured at fair value on the date of
grant based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price
of the common stock, which will be recognized as compensation
expense over the corresponding service term.
We are subject to general business regulations
and laws, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing
the Internet and e-commerce. Such existing and future laws and
regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other
online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation,
user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights,
distribution, electronic contracts and other communications,
consumer protection, the provision of online payment services,
broadband residential Internet access, and the characteristics
and quality of products and services. It is not clear how
existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales
and other taxes, libel, and personal privacy apply to the
Internet and e-commerce. Unfavorable resolution of these issues
may harm our business. In addition, many jurisdictions currently
regulate "auctions" and "auctioneers" and
may regulate online auction services. Jurisdictions may also
regulate consumer-to-consumer fixed price online markets, like
zShops and certain aspects of Amazon
47
Marketplace. This could, in turn, diminish the
demand for our products and services and increase our cost of
doing business.
In accordance with current industry practice, we
do not collect sales taxes or other taxes with respect to
shipments of most of our goods into states other than Washington
and North Dakota. Under some of our commercial agreements, the
other company is the seller of record of the applicable
merchandise and we are obligated to collect sales tax in most
states in accordance with that company's instructions. We
may enter into additional strategic alliances requiring similar
tax collection obligations. We collect Value Added Tax, or VAT,
for products that are ordered on ,
, and and delivered in
European Union, or EU, member countries. As of July 1,
2003, we began collecting VAT with respect to certain of our
"electronically supplied services," including digital
downloads and marketplace services, provided to certain EU
residents. We also collect Japanese consumption tax for products
that are ordered on and delivered in
Japan. In addition, Canadian consumption taxes are collected on
sales of products that are ordered on and
delivered in Canada. Our fulfillment center and customer service
center networks, and any future expansion of those networks,
along with other aspects of our evolving business, may result in
additional sales and other tax obligations. One or more states
or foreign countries may seek to impose sales or other tax
collection obligations on out-of-jurisdiction companies which
engage in e-commerce. A successful assertion by one or more
states or foreign countries that we should collect sales or
other taxes on the sale of merchandise or services could result
in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our
ability to compete with traditional retailers, and otherwise
harm our business.
Currently, decisions of the U.S. Supreme
Court restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state
and local sales and use taxes with respect to sales made over
the Internet. However, a number of states, as well as the
U.S. Congress, have been considering various initiatives
that could limit or supersede the Supreme Court's position
regarding sales and use taxes on Internet sales. If any of these
initiatives addressed the Supreme Court's constitutional
concerns and resulted in a reversal of its current position, we
could be required to collect sales and use taxes in states other
than Washington and North Dakota. The imposition by state and
local governments of various taxes upon Internet commerce could
create administrative burdens for us and could decrease our
future sales.
Although we continue to increase our direct
purchasing from manufacturers, we source a significant amount of
inventory from relatively few vendors. However, no vendor
accounts for 10% or more of our inventory purchases. We do not
have long-term contracts or arrangements with most of our
vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular
payment terms, or the extension of credit limits. If our current
vendors were to stop selling merchandise to us on acceptable
terms, we may not be able to acquire merchandise from other
suppliers in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable
terms.
Some of the products we sell may expose us to
product liability claims relating to personal injury, death, or
property damage caused by such products, and may require us to
take actions such as product recalls. Certain businesses and
individuals also sell products using our ecommerce platform that
may increase our exposure to product liability claims, such as
if these sellers do not have sufficient resources to protect
themselves from such claims. Although we maintain liability
insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be
adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance
will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable
terms, or at all. In addition, some of our vendor agreements
with our suppliers and third party sellers do not indemnify us
from product liability.
48
A fundamental requirement for e-commerce is the
secure transmission of confidential information over public
networks. Although we have developed systems and processes that
are designed to protect consumer information and prevent
fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches,
failure to mitigate such fraud or breaches may adversely affect
our operating results.
The law relating to the liability of providers of
online payment services is currently unsettled. In addition, we
are aware that governmental agencies have investigated the
provision of online payment services and could require changes
in the way this business is conducted. We guarantee payments
made through Amazon Payments up to certain limits for buyers,
and we may be unable to prevent users of Amazon Payments from
fraudulently collecting payments when goods may not be shipped
to a buyer. Our liability risk will increase if a larger
fraction of our sellers use Amazon Payments. Any costs we incur
as a result of liability because of our guarantee of payments
made through Amazon Payments or otherwise could harm our
business. In addition, the functionality of Amazon Payments
depends on certain third-party vendors delivering services. If
these vendors are unable or unwilling to provide services,
Amazon Payments will not be viable (and our businesses that use
Amazon Payments may not be viable).
Technology in the e-commerce industry changes
rapidly. We may not be able to adapt quickly enough to changing
customer requirements and preferences and industry standards.
Competitors often introduce new products and services with new
technologies. These changes and the emergence of new industry
standards and practices could render our existing Websites and
proprietary technology obsolete.
Consumer use of the Internet as a medium for
commerce is a recent phenomenon and is subject to a high level
of uncertainty. While the number of Internet users has been
rising, the Internet infrastructure may not expand fast enough
to meet the increased levels of demand. If use of the Internet
as a medium for commerce does not continue to grow or grows at a
slower rate than we anticipate, our sales would be lower than
expected and our business would be harmed.
We may be unable to prevent users of our
Merchants@ program, Merchant.com program, and Amazon
Marketplace, Auctions, and zShops services from selling unlawful
goods, or from selling goods in an unlawful manner. We may face
civil or criminal liability for unlawful and fraudulent
activities by our users under U.S. laws and the laws and
regulations of other countries. In addition, if we are
unsuccessful in preventing our users from providing content that
is either illegal or which violates the proprietary rights of
others, it may result in liability to us. Any costs we incur as
a result of liability relating to the sale of unlawful goods,
the unlawful sale of goods, the fraudulent receipt of goods or
the fraudulent collection of payments could harm our business.
In running our Merchants@ program, Merchant.com program, Amazon
Marketplace, Auctions, and zShops services, we rely on sellers
to make accurate representations and provide reliable delivery,
and on buyers to pay the agreed purchase price. We do not take
responsibility for delivery of payment or goods and, while we
can suspend or terminate the accounts of users who fail to
fulfill their delivery obligations, we cannot require users to
make payments or deliver goods. We do not compensate users who
believe they have been defrauded by other users except through
our guarantee program. Under our guarantee program, fraudulent
activities by our users, such as the fraudulent collection of
payments, may create liability for us.
Item 3. Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
We are exposed to market risk for the effect of
interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and
changes in the market values of our investments.
49
Information relating to quantitative and
qualitative disclosure about market risk is set forth below and
in Item 2 of Part I, "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations -- Liquidity and Capital Resources."
Our exposure to market risk for changes in
interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and
our long-term debt. All of our cash equivalent and marketable
fixed income securities are designated as available-for-sale
and, accordingly, are presented at fair value on our balance
sheets. We generally invest our excess cash in A-rated or higher
short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and money
market mutual funds. Fixed rate securities may have their fair
market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates,
and we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell
securities that have declined in market value due to changes in
interest rates.
At September 30, 2003, we had long-term debt
of $2.08 billion primarily associated with our 6.875% PEACS
and 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes, which are due in 2010
and 2009 (including $200 million related to the portion of
our 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes that we announced we
will redeem in the fourth quarter of 2003). The market value of
our long-term debt will fluctuate with movements of interest
rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and
declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. Based upon
quoted market prices, the fair value of the 6.875% PEACS was
$805 million and $531 million at September 30,
2003 and December 31, 2002, and the fair value of the 4.75%
Convertible Subordinated Notes was $1.3 billion and
$925 million at September 30, 2003 and
December 31, 2002.
During the three months ended September 30,
2003, net sales from our International segment (consisting of
, , , and
) accounted for 37% of our consolidated
revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from these
Websites, as well as those relating to , are
denominated in the functional currencies of the corresponding
Websites. The functional currency of our subsidiaries that
either operate or support these Websites is the same as the
corresponding local currency. Results of operations from our
foreign subsidiaries and our subsidiaries that operate our
internationally focused Websites are exposed to foreign exchange
fluctuations as the financial results of these subsidiaries are
translated into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation at average
rates prevailing during the year. As exchange rates vary, net
sales and other operating results, when translated, may differ
materially from expectations. During the three months ended
September 30, 2003, International segment revenues improved
$28 million and overall results from operations improved
$1 million in comparison with the same period in the prior
year due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
At September 30, 2003, we were also exposed
to foreign exchange risk related to Euro-denominated cash
equivalents and marketable securities ("Euro
Investments"), as well as our 6.875% PEACS. At
September 30, 2003, the Euro Investments, classified as
available-for-sale, had a balance of 40 million Euros
($46 million, based on the exchange rate as of
September 30, 2003). Based on the outstanding Euro
Investment balance at September 30, 2003, an assumed 5%,
10%, and 20% strengthening of the U.S. Dollar in relation to the
Euro would result in a corresponding decline in the total fair
value of such investments of approximately $2 million,
$5 million, and $9 million. Our 6.875% PEACS have an
outstanding principal balance of 690 million Euros
($805 million, based on the exchange rate as of
September 30, 2003). Based on the outstanding 6.875%
PEACS's principal balance of 690 million Euros at
September 30, 2003, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% weakening
of the U.S. Dollar in relation to the Euro would result in
corresponding currency losses of approximately $40 million,
$80 million, and $161 million, recorded to
"Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and other." Because we
recently terminated our Euro Currency Swap, we also have
additional interest expense exposure to fluctuations in foreign
exchange rates.
As of September 30, 2003, our recorded basis
in equity securities was $19 million, including
$6 million classified as "Marketable securities"
and $13 million classified as "Other equity
investments." We regularly
50
review the carrying value of our investments and
identify and record losses when events and circumstances
indicate that such declines in the fair value of such assets
below our accounting basis are other-than-temporary. During the
three months ended September 30, 2003 we did not record any
other-than-temporary impairment losses on our equity
investments. During the nine months ended September 30,
2003, we recorded other-than-temporary impairment losses
totaling $2 million, compared to $8 million during the
year ended December 31, 2002, to write-down certain of our
equity investments to fair value. The fair values of our
investments are subject to significant fluctuations due to
volatility of the stock market and changes in general economic
conditions. Based on the fair value of the publicly-traded
equity securities we held at September 30, 2003 of
$110 million (recorded basis of $11 million), an
assumed 15%, 30%, and 50% adverse change to market prices of
these securities would result in a corresponding decline in
total fair value of approximately $16 million,
$33 million, and $55 million.
Item 4. Controls
and Procedures
We carried out an evaluation required by the 1934
Act, under the supervision and with the participation of our
principal executive officer and principal financial officer, of
the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure
controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by
this report. Based on this evaluation, our principal executive
officer and principal financial officer concluded that our
disclosure controls and procedures are effective in timely
alerting them to material information required to be included in
our periodic SEC reports. It should be noted that any system of
controls is based in part upon certain assumptions designed to
obtain reasonable (and not absolute) assurance as to its
effectiveness, and there can be no assurance that any design
will succeed in achieving its stated goals.
During the most recent fiscal quarter, there has
not occurred any change in our internal control over financial
reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely
to materially affect, our internal control over financial
reporting.
51
PART II. OTHER INFORMATION
On April 12, 2001, we received a request
from the SEC staff for the voluntary production of documents and
information concerning, among other things, previously reported
sales of our common stock by our Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer, Jeffrey P. Bezos, on February 2 and 5, 2001. We
have cooperated fully with the SEC staff's inquiry.
A number of purported class action complaints
were filed by holders of our equity and debt securities against
us, our directors, and certain of our senior officers during
2001, in the United States District Court for the Western
District of Washington, alleging violations of the Securities
Act of 1933 (the "1933 Act") and/or the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (the "1934 Act"). On
August 1, 2003, plaintiffs in the 1934 Act cases filed a
second consolidated amended complaint alleging that we, together
with certain of our officers and directors, made false or
misleading statements during the period from October 29,
1998 through October 23, 2001 concerning our business,
financial condition and results, inventories, future prospects,
and strategic alliance transactions. The 1933 Act complaint
alleges that the defendants made false or misleading statements
in connection with our February 2000 offering of the 6.875%
PEACS. The complaints seek recissionary and/or compensatory
damages and injunctive relief against all defendants. We dispute
the allegations of wrongdoing in these complaints and intend to
vigorously defend ourselves in these matters.
On October 29, 2002, Gary Gerlinger,
individually and on behalf of all other similarly situated
consumers in the United States who, during the period from
August 1, 2001 to the present, purchased books online from
either Amazon.com or Borders.com, instituted an action against
us and Borders in the United States District Court for the
Northern District of California. The complaint alleges that the
agreement pursuant to which an affiliate of Amazon.com operates
Borders.com as a co-branded site violates federal anti-trust
laws, California statutory law, and the common law of unjust
enrichment. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages,
including treble damages or statutory damages where applicable,
attorneys' fees, costs, and disbursements, disgorgement of
all sums obtained by allegedly wrongful acts, interest, and
declaratory relief. We dispute the plaintiff's allegations
of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this
matter.
In March 2003, we were served with a complaint
filed in the Chancery Court of Davidson County, Tennessee, by a
private litigant purportedly on behalf of the State of Tennessee
under the Tennessee False Claims Act. The complaint alleges that
we (along with other companies with which we have commercial
agreements) wrongfully failed to collect and remit sales and use
taxes for sales of personal property to customers in Tennessee
and knowingly created records and statements falsely stating we
were not required to collect or remit such taxes. The complaint
seeks injunctive relief, unpaid taxes, interest, attorneys'
fees, civil penalties of up to $10,000 per violation, and treble
damages under Tennessee's False Claims Act. In July 2003,
we received a similar complaint filed in Cook County District
Court, Nevada, by the same private litigant alleging similar
claims with respect to sales and use taxes for sales of personal
property to customers in Nevada. In September 2003, we learned
that a similar complaint was filed by the same private litigant
in Illinois alleging similar claims with respect to sales and
use taxes for sales of personal property to customers in
Illinois. We are aware that the private litigant in this case
has filed similar actions against other retailers in other
states, and it is possible that we have been or will be named in
similar cases in other states as well. We do not believe that we
are liable under existing laws and regulations for any failure
to collect sales or other taxes relating to Internet sales and
intend to vigorously defend ourselves in these matters.
On July 17, 2003, Pinpoint, Inc. filed a
complaint for patent infringement in the United States District
Court for the Northern District of Illinois against us and
several other companies with which we have commercial
agreements. The complaint alleges that our personalization
technology infringes several patents obtained by Pinpoint and
seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages in an amount no less
than a reasonable royalty, prejudgment interest, and
attorneys' fees against all defendants. We dispute the
allegations of wrongdoing in this complaint and intend to
vigorously defend ourselves in this matter.
52
Depending on the amount and the timing, an
unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could
materially affect our business, future results of operations,
financial position, or cash flows in a particular period.
On September 29, 2003, De Anza Properties
exercised a portion of their warrant and received 1,986 shares
of our common stock at a per share exercise price of $6.1588. We
assumed this warrant obligation in connection with a 1998
acquisition. The shares were issued in reliance on an exemption
from registration under Section 4(a)(2) under the
Securities Act.
None.
None.
None.
(a) Exhibits
(b) Reports on Form 8-K
On July 22, 2003, we filed a Form 8-K
announcing our second quarter 2003 financial results.
53
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.
Dated: October 23, 2003
54
EXHIBIT INDEX