.
3
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(in thousands, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
4
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(in thousands)
(Unaudited)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
5
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS(Unaudited)
Note 1 -- Accounting Policies
Unaudited Interim Financial Information
We have prepared the accompanying consolidated financial statements
pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission
(the "SEC") for interim financial reporting. As used
herein, "Amazon.com," the "Company,"
"we," "our" and similar terms include Amazon.com, Inc. and its wholly-owned
subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. These consolidated
financial statements are unaudited and, in our opinion, include all
adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments and accruals necessary
for a fair presentation of the consolidated balance sheets, operating results,
and cash flows for the periods presented. Operating results for the three
months ended March 31, 2003 are not necessarily indicative of the results that
may be expected for the year ending December 31, 2003 due to seasonal and other
factors. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in
financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States have been omitted in accordance with
the rules and regulations of the SEC. These consolidated financial statements
should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial
statements and accompanying notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2002. Certain prior period amounts have been
reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.
Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Amazon.com
and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions
have been eliminated.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States requires estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities,
revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and
liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.
Estimates are used for, but not limited to, inventory valuation, depreciable
lives, sales returns, receivables valuation, restructuring-related liabilities,
incentive discount offers, valuation of investments, taxes and contingencies.
Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.
Loss per Share
The number of shares used to calculate loss per share for the three months
ended March 31, 2003 and 2002 was reduced by 1 million shares in each period.
Such reductions reflect the weighted average number of outstanding shares
subject to repurchase or forfeiture for the corresponding periods. The effect
of outstanding stock awards is antidilutive and, accordingly, is excluded from
diluted loss per share.
Accounting Changes -- Inventory Costing
Effective January 1, 2002, we prospectively changed our inventory costing
method to the first-in first-out ("FIFO") method of accounting. This change
resulted in a cumulative increase in inventory of $0.8 million, with a
corresponding amount recorded to "Cumulative effect of change in accounting
principle" on the consolidated statements of operations. We evaluated the
effect of the change on each quarter of 2001 and determined such effect to be
less than $1.2 million individually and in the aggregate. We determined this
change to be preferable under accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States since, among other reasons, it facilitates our record keeping
process, significantly improves our ability to provide cost-efficient
fulfillment services to third-party companies as part of our services offering
and results in increased consistency with others in our industry. We received a
letter of preferability for this change in inventory costing from our
independent auditors.
Vendor Agreements
We have agreements to receive cash consideration from certain of our
vendors, including rebates and cooperative marketing reimbursements. We
generally presume amounts received from our vendors are a reduction of the
prices we pay for their products and therefore we reflect such amounts as
either a reduction of "Cost of sales" on our consolidated statements of
operations, or if the
6
Table of Contents
product inventory is still on hand at the reporting date, it is reflected
as a reduction of "Inventories" on our consolidated balance sheets. When we
receive direct reimbursements for costs incurred by us in selling the vendor's
product or service, the amount we receive is recorded as a cost offset to
"Marketing" on our statements of operations.
Vendor rebates are typically dependent upon reaching minimum purchase
thresholds. We evaluate the likelihood of reaching purchase thresholds using
past experience and current year forecasts. When rebates can be reasonably
estimated, we record a portion of the rebate as we make progress towards the
purchase threshold. Our accounting treatment is consistent with the conclusions
reached in Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") 02-16, "Accounting by a Customer
(Including a Reseller) for Certain Consideration Received from a Vendor."
Goodwill and Other Intangibles
Statements of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 142, "Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets," prescribes a two-phase process for impairment
testing of goodwill, which is performed once annually, absent indicators of
impairment. The first phase screens for impairment, while the second phase (if
necessary) measures the impairment. We have elected to perform our annual
analysis during the fourth calendar quarter of each year. No indicators of
impairment were identified during the first quarter of 2003.
Other intangibles consist of the following (in thousands):
The net carrying amount of intangible assets at March 31, 2003 is
scheduled to be fully amortized by the end of 2004. Amortization expense for
the net carrying amount of intangible assets at March 31, 2003 is estimated to
be $2 million for the remainder of 2003, and less than $1 million in 2004.
Revenue
Product sales, net of promotional gift certificates and return allowances,
are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes to customers.
Retail items sold to customers are made pursuant to a sales contract that
provides for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon our delivery to the
carrier (commonly referred to as "F.O.B. Shipping Point"). Return allowances
(which reduce product revenue by the Company's best estimate of expected
product returns) are estimated using historical experience.
Amounts billed to customers for outbound shipping charges are included in
net sales and were $78 million and $89 million for the three months ended March
31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
Stock-Based Compensation
Stock-based compensation consisted of the following (in thousands):
7
Table of Contents
Employee stock awards include employee stock options, restricted stock
units and restricted stock. Stock options and restricted stock units are
excluded from common stock outstanding, whereas grants of restricted stock are
included in common stock outstanding. Common shares outstanding plus
shares underlying stock-based employee awards totaled
432 million at March 31, 2003, a decrease of 1%
compared with March 31, 2002.
Outstanding stock awards were as follows (in thousands):
We apply the intrinsic value method or variable accounting treatment to
our stock awards, depending on the nature of the award. The following table
summarizes relevant information as if the fair value recognition provisions of
SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation," had been applied to
all stock-based awards (in thousands, except per share data):
The fair value for each award granted was estimated at the date of grant
using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model, assuming no expected dividends and
the following weighted average assumptions:
The weighted average fair value of stock awards (including restricted
stock units) granted during the three months ended March 31, 2003 and 2002 was
$21.66 and $13.43, respectively.
8
Table of Contents
Note 2 -- Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities
Our cash and
marketable securities are summarized as follows (at fair value, in thousands):
We have pledged a portion of our marketable securities. See "Note 4 --
Commitments and Contingencies."
Note 3 -- Long-Term Debt and Other
Our long-term debt and other long-term liabilities are summarized as
follows (in thousands):
Subsequent Event: Notification of Redemption of 10% Senior Discount Notes
Subsequent to quarter end, we announced that on May 28, 2003
we will redeem our 10% Senior Discount Notes. As provided in the underlying indenture, the redemption price
of $277 million represents a $13 million (5%) premium over the face amount of the 10% Senior Discount Notes. We
will record a charge in the second quarter 2003, classified in
non-operating expenses, of approximately $15 million
related to the redemption, consisting of the $13 million premium and approximately $2 million in unamortized
debt issuance costs. Accrued interest from May 1, 2003 through May 27, 2003 will also be payable at redemption.
9
Table of Contents
Note 4 -- Commitments and Contingencies
Commitments
We currently lease office and fulfillment center facilities and fixed
assets under non-cancelable operating and capital leases. Rental expense under
operating lease agreements for the three months ended March 31, 2003 and 2002
was $13 million and $15 million, respectively.
The following are our contractual commitments associated with our
operational restructuring, indebtedness, lease obligations and marketing
agreements (in thousands):
See Note 6 for additional information on restructuring-related lease
obligations.
Pledged Securities
We have pledged a portion of our marketable securities as collateral for
stand-by letters of credit that guarantee certain of our contractual
obligations, a majority of which relates to property leases; the Euro Currency
Swap; and some of our real estate lease agreements. The amount of marketable
securities we are required to pledge pursuant to the Euro Currency Swap
fluctuates with the fair market value of the obligation. The change in the
total amount of collateral pledged under these agreements is as follows (in
thousands):
Legal Proceedings
See Item 1, "Legal Proceedings," of Part II.
Inventory Suppliers
During 2002 and for the three months ended March 31, 2003, we purchased
over 10% of all inventory purchases from a single vendor, Ingram Book Group. No
other vendors account for over 10%. We do not have long-term contracts or
arrangements with most of our vendors to guarantee the availability of
merchandise, particular payment terms or the extension of credit limits.
10
Table of Contents
Note 5 -- Comprehensive Loss
The changes in the components of comprehensive loss were as follows (in
thousands):
Activity in other comprehensive income (loss) relating to the Euro
Currency Swap for the three months ended March 31, 2003 and 2002 was as
follows:
We are not able to predict future gains or losses due to the remeasurement
of the hedged portion of the 6.875% PEACS and equivalent reclassifications of
losses or gains on the Euro Currency Swap from accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss) to earnings.
Note 6 -- Restructuring-Related and Other
As previously disclosed, in the first quarter of 2001 we announced and
began implementation of our operational restructuring plan. The restructuring
is complete; however, we may adjust our restructuring-related estimates in the
future, if necessary. Restructuring-related and other expenses were $10 million
for the three months ended March 31, 2002 associated with our revised estimates
of ongoing lease obligations for our facilities in Seattle, Washington and
McDonough, Georgia. No similar expenses were incurred during the three months
ended March 31, 2003.
Restructuring-related charges were as follows (in thousands):
11
Table of Contents
At March 31, 2003, the accrued liability associated with
restructuring-related and other charges was $41 million and consisted of the
following (in thousands):
Restructuring-related lease obligations are as follows (in thousands):
Note 7 -- Other Income, Net
Other income, net consisted of the following (in thousands):
Note 8 -- Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and Other
Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and other consisted of the following (in
thousands):
12
Table of Contents
Note 9 -- Employee Benefit Plan
We have a 401(k) savings plan covering substantially all of our employees.
Eligible employees may contribute through payroll deductions. Through March 31,
2003, we have not matched employee contributions to the 401(k) savings plan;
however we have announced our intentions to make employer matching
contributions beginning in April 2003 using our common stock.
Note 10 -- Segment Information
We present segment information along the same lines that our chief
operating decision maker reviews our operating results in assessing performance
and allocating resources. During the first quarter of 2003, our chief operating
decision maker began reviewing operating results along two lines: North America
and International. This change was prompted by the increasing prominence and
overall importance of third party sellers on our Web sites as well as how both
capital and human resources are allocated for technology and fulfillment
operations. We have aligned our organization with the primary management
objective of increasing overall unit sales volume, regardless of
whether a third party or the Company is the seller.
We measure operating results of our segments using an internal performance
measure of direct segment operating expenses that excludes stock-based
compensation, amortization of goodwill and other intangibles, and
restructuring-related and other charges, each of which are not allocated to
segment results. All other centrally-incurred operating costs are fully
allocated to segment results. There are no internal revenue transactions
between our reporting segments.
North America
The North America segment consists of amounts earned from retail sales of
consumer products through and (including from
third-party sellers), from North America focused Syndicated Stores and
mail-order catalogs and from non-retail activities such as North America
focused Merchant.com, marketing and promotional agreements.
International
The International segment consists of amounts earned from retail sales of
consumer products through , , and
(including from third-party sellers), from internationally
focused Syndicated Stores and from non-retail activities such as
internationally focused marketing and promotional agreements. This segment
includes export sales from , , and
(including export sales from these sites to customers in the
U.S. and Canada), but excludes export sales from and
.
Information on reportable segments and reconciliation to consolidated net
loss is as follows (in thousands):
Three Months Ended March 31, 2003:
13
Table of Contents
Three Months Ended March 31, 2002:
Net sales to customers outside of the U.S. represented approximately 41%
and 34% of net sales for the three months ended March 31, 2003 and 2002,
respectively.
14
Table of Contents
Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Forward-Looking Statements
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements
within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All
statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements
regarding industry prospects or future results
of operations or financial position, made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects,
future, intends and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements reflect management's current expectations and are
inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of
reasons, including, among others, the rate of growth of the economy in general
and of the Internet and online commerce, customer spending patterns, world
events, the amount that we invest in new business opportunities and the timing
of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net
sales derived from products as compared with services, competition, risks of
inventory management, the degree to which we enter into, maintain and develop
relationships with commercial agreements and strategic transactions, foreign
exchange risks, seasonality, international growth and expansion and risks of
fulfillment throughput and productivity. These risks and uncertainties, as well
as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ
significantly from management's expectations, are described in greater detail
in "Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results," which, along with the
following discussion, describes some, but not all, of the factors that could
cause actual results to differ significantly from management's expectations.
Results of Operations
Critical Accounting Judgments
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States requires estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities,
revenues and expenses and related disclosures of contingent assets and
liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.
The SEC has defined a company's critical accounting policies as the ones that
are most important to the portrayal of the company's financial condition and
results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult
and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of
matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have
identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We
also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates,
judgments and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results.
For additional information see Note 1, "Accounting Policies," in Item 1 of Part
I, "Financial Statements" of this Form 10-Q, and Note 1 "Description of
Business and Accounting Policies" in Item 8 of Part II, "Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data," of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2002. Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions and
judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available.
Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different
assumptions, judgments or conditions.
Significant Accounting Policies
Inventories
Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are valued at the
lower of cost or market value, which requires us to make judgments, based on
currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition
(whether through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors or
liquidations), and expected recoverable values of each disposition category.
Based on this evaluation, which is applied consistently from period to period,
we record a valuation allowance to adjust the carrying amount of our
inventories to lower of cost or market value.
Revenue Recognition
We recognize revenue from product sales or services rendered
when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive
evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been
rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is
reasonably assured.
We evaluate the criteria of EITF Issue No. 99-19, "Reporting Revenue Gross
as a Principal Versus Net as an Agent," in determining whether it is
appropriate to record the gross amount of product sales and related costs or
the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are the primary
obligor in a transaction, are subject to inventory risk, have latitude in
establishing prices and selecting suppliers, or have several but not all of
these indicators, revenue is recorded gross. If we are not the primary
15
Table of Contents
obligor and amounts earned are determined using a fixed percentage, a
fixed-payment schedule, or a combination of the two, we generally record the
net amounts as commissions earned.
Product sales, net of promotional discounts, rebates and return
allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes to
customers. Retail items sold to customers are made pursuant to a sales contract
that provides for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon our delivery to
the carrier (commonly referred to as "F.O.B. Shipping Point"). Return
allowances (which reduce product revenue by our best estimate of expected
product returns) are estimated using historical experience.
We periodically provide incentive offers to our customers to encourage
purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, meaning percentage
discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, meaning offers for future
discounts subject to a minimum current purchase and other similar offers.
Current discount offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a
reduction to the purchase price of the related transaction and are presented as
a net amount in "Net sales." Inducement offers, when accepted by our customers,
are treated as a reduction to purchase price based on estimated redemption
rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for
similar inducement offers.
Commissions received from third-party sellers and amounts earned through
our Merchant.com program are recognized when the item is sold by the
third-party seller and our collectibility is reasonably assured. We record an
allowance for estimated refunds on such commissions using historical
experience.
We earn revenues from business-to-business commercial agreements,
including providing our technology services such as search, browse and
personalization; permitting other businesses and individuals to offer products
or services through our Web sites; and powering third-party Web sites, either
with or without providing accompanying fulfillment services. These commercial
agreements also include miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. As
compensation for the services we provide under these agreements, we generally
receive cash. In the past, we have accepted as compensation under these
arrangements equity securities, or a combination of equity securities and cash.
We measure the fair value of any equity consideration when the agreement is
executed or when forfeiture or vesting provisions lapse. We generally recognize
revenue from these marketing and promotional services (including revenues
associated with non-refundable advance payments) on a straight-line basis over
the period during which we perform services under these agreements, commencing
at the launch date of the service. If we receive non-refundable advance
payments, such amounts are deferred for revenue recognition purposes until
service commences. Equity-based revenue during the three months ended March 31,
2003 was insignificant. We recorded equity-based revenues of $5 million for the
three months ended March 31, 2002.
We have in the past, and may in the future, amend our agreements with
certain of the companies with which we have commercial agreements to modify
future cash proceeds to be received by us, modify the service term of our
commercial agreements, or both. Although these amendments generally do not
affect the amount of unearned revenue previously recorded by us (if any), the
timing of future revenue recognition changes to correspond with the terms of
amended agreements. These amendments or future amendments will affect the
timing and amount of revenues recognized in connection with these commercial
agreements. To the extent we believe any such amendments cause or may cause the
compensation to be received under an agreement to no longer be fixed or
determinable, we limit our revenue recognition to amounts received, excluding
any future amounts not deemed fixed or determinable. As future amounts are
subsequently received, such amounts are incorporated into our revenue
recognition over the remaining term of the agreement.
Vendor Agreements
We have agreements to receive cash consideration from certain of our
vendors, including rebates and cooperative marketing reimbursements. We
generally presume amounts received from our vendors are a reduction of the
prices we pay for their products and therefore we reflect such amounts as
either a reduction of "Cost of sales" on our consolidated statements of
operations, or if the product inventory is still on hand at the reporting date,
it is reflected as a reduction of "Inventories" on our consolidated balance
sheets. When we receive direct reimbursements for costs incurred by us in
selling the vendor's product or service, the amount we receive is recorded as a
cost offset to "Marketing" on our statements of operations.
Vendor rebates are typically dependent upon reaching minimum purchase
thresholds. We evaluate the likelihood of reaching purchase thresholds using
past experience and current year forecasts. When rebates can be reasonably
estimated, we record a portion of the rebate as we make progress towards the
purchase threshold. Our accounting treatment is consistent with the conclusions
reached in EITF 02-16, "Accounting by a Customer (Including a Reseller) for
Certain Consideration Received from a Vendor."
16
Table of Contents
Accounting for Goodwill
SFAS No. 142 prescribes a two-phase process for annual impairment testing
of goodwill, which is performed once annually, absent indicators of impairment.
The first phase screens for impairment, while the second phase (if necessary)
measures the impairment. We have elected to perform our annual analysis during
the fourth calendar quarter of each year. No indicators of impairment were
identified during the first quarter of 2003.
Restructuring Estimates
Restructuring-related liabilities include estimates for, among other
things, anticipated disposition of lease obligations. Key variables in
determining such estimates include anticipated commencement timing of sublease
rentals, estimates of sublease rental payment amounts and tenant improvement
costs and estimates for brokerage and other related costs. We periodically
evaluate and, if necessary, adjust our estimates based on currently-available
information.
Results of Operations
Segments Description
We present segment information along the same lines that our chief
operating decision maker reviews our operating results in assessing performance
and allocating resources. During the first quarter of 2003, our chief operating
decision maker began reviewing operating results along two lines: North America
and International. This change was prompted by the increasing prominence and
overall importance of third party sellers on our Web sites as well as how both
capital and human resources are allocated for technology and fulfillment
operations. We have aligned our organization with the primary management
objective of increasing overall unit sales volume, regardless of
whether a third party or the Company is the seller.
The North America segment includes amounts earned from retail sales of
consumer products through and (including from
third-party sellers), from North America focused Syndicated Stores and
mail-order catalogs and from non-retail activities such as North America
focused Merchant.com, marketing and promotional agreements. The International
segment includes amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products through
, , and (including
from third-party sellers), from internationally focused Syndicated Stores and
from non-retail activities such as internationally focused marketing and
promotional agreements. Our International segment includes export sales from
, , and (including
export sales from these sites to customers in the U.S. and Canada), but
excludes export sales from and .
Net Sales
Net sales include the selling price of consumer products sold by us, less
promotional discounts, rebates and sales returns; outbound shipping charges
billed to our customers; commissions earned, consisting of fixed fees, sales
commissions, per-unit activity fees, or some combination thereof, from
third-party sellers, including Merchant@ and Amazon Marketplace sellers; the
selling price of consumer products sold by us through our Syndicated Stores
program; amounts earned (fixed fees, sales commissions, per-unit activity fees,
or some combination thereof) in connection with our Merchant.com program; and
amounts earned for miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements.
Net sales were $1.08 billion and $847 million for the three months ended
March 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, representing an increase of 28%. Net
sales for our North America segment were $705 million and $621 million for the
three months ended March 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, representing an
increase of 13%, and net sales for our International segment were $379 million
and $226 million, respectively, representing an increase of 68%. Growth in unit
sales is greater than growth in net sales due to lower prices, including as a
result of our free shipping promotions, and to an increasing percentage of
units being sold by third parties for which we earn a net commission. Net sales
benefited $51 million in comparison to the first quarter of 2002 due to
changes in foreign exchange rates as the U.S. Dollar weakened in comparison to
the Euro and the British Pound. The future growth of our International segment
may fluctuate significantly with changes in foreign exchange rates. See
"Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results -- We Have Foreign Exchange
Risk."
Shipping revenue, which consists of outbound shipping charges to our
customers, was $78 million and $89 million for the three months ended March 31,
2003 and 2002, respectively. Shipping revenue does not include any commissions
or other amounts earned from third-party sellers. We provide to our customers
free shipping alternatives, which reduce shipping revenue as a percentage of
sales and cause our gross margins on retail sales to decline. We view these
shipping offers as an effective marketing tool and intend to continue offering
these alternatives to our customers.
Gross Profit
Cost of sales consists of the purchase price of consumer products sold by
us, inbound and outbound shipping charges to us, packaging supplies and certain
costs associated with our service revenues. In instances where we incur
fulfillment costs to ship
17
Table of Contents
products on behalf of third-party sellers or provide customer service on
their behalf, such costs are classified as "Cost of sales" rather than
"Fulfillment" on the consolidated statements of operations.
Gross profit was $271 million and $223 million for the three months ended
March 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, representing an increase of 21%. Gross
margin was 25.0% and 26.3% for these periods, respectively. Gross profit for
our North America segment was $187 million and $174 million for the three
months ended March 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, representing an increase of
8%, and gross profit for our International segment was $84 million and $50
million, respectively, representing an increase of 69%. Gross margin was 26.5%
and 27.9% for our North America segment during the three months ended March 31,
2003 and 2002, respectively, and 22.1% and 21.9% for our International segment,
respectively. The increase in gross profit during the first quarter of 2003
corresponds with increases in unit sales, including those by third-party
sellers, offset by lower prices for customers. Our overall gross margins
fluctuate based on several factors, including our mix of sales during the
period, sales volumes by third-party sellers, competitive pricing decisions and
general efforts to reduce prices for our customers over time, as well as the
extent to which we provide free and reduced-rate shipping offers. Consolidated
gross profit benefited $11 million in comparison to the first quarter of 2002
due to changes in foreign exchange rates as the U.S. Dollar weakened in
comparison to the Euro and the British Pound.
During 2002, sales of products by third-party sellers increased
significantly in comparison to the prior year. Since revenues from these sales
are recorded as a net amount, they result in lower revenues but higher gross
margins per unit. To the extent product sales by third-party sellers continue
to increase, we anticipate improvement in gross margin, offset to the extent we
offer additional or broader price reductions, free shipping offers and other
promotions.
Shipping loss was $27 million and $1 million for the three months ended
March 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The loss from shipping primarily
reflects the free and reduced-rate shipping offers, offset in part by cost
reductions from efficiencies in our outbound shipping. We continue to measure
our shipping results relative to their effect on our overall financial results,
with the viewpoint that free shipping offers are an effective marketing tool.
We intend to continue offering these alternatives, which will reduce shipping
revenue as a percentage of sales and negatively affect gross margins.
Fulfillment
Fulfillment costs represent those costs incurred in operating and staffing
our fulfillment and customer service centers, including costs attributable to
receiving, inspecting and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging and
preparing customer orders for shipment; credit card fees and bad debt costs;
and responding to inquiries from customers. Fulfillment costs also include
amounts paid to third-party co-sourcers that assist us in fulfillment and
customer service operations. Certain of our fulfillment-related costs that are
incurred on behalf of other businesses, such as Toysrus.com and Target
Corporation, are classified as cost of sales rather than fulfillment.
Fulfillment costs were $104 million and $90 million for the three months ended
March 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, representing 10% and 11% of net sales,
respectively. The increase in fulfillment costs in comparison with the prior
year generally corresponds with sales volume. The improvement in fulfillment
costs as a percentage of net sales results from improvements in productivity
and accuracy, the increase in units fulfilled leveraging the fixed-cost
portion of our fulfillment network, efficiencies gained through utilization of
fulfillment services provided by third-party co-sourcers, and a decline in
customer service contacts per order resulting from improvements in our
operations and enhancements to our customer self-service features available on
our Web sites. These improvements were offset, in part, by increases in
employee wages and benefits and credit card interchange fees associated with
third-party seller transactions, which represent a higher percent relative to
amounts earned from retail sales of our inventory.
Marketing
Marketing expenses consist of advertising, on-line marketing, promotional
and public relations expenditures, and payroll and related expenses for
personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities. Marketing expenses, net
of co-operative marketing reimbursements, were $28 million and $32 million for
the three months ended March 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, representing 3%
and 4% of net sales, respectively. To the extent co-operative marketing
reimbursements decline in future periods, we may incur additional expenses to
continue certain promotions or elect to reduce or discontinue them. Declines in
expense for marketing-related activities reflect management efforts to cut
ineffective marketing programs, as well as reduced rates charged to us for some
online marketing activities. These decreases are partially offset by increased
investment in marketing channels considered most effective in driving
incremental net sales, such as our Associates program. Our Associates program
enables associated Web sites to make our products available to their audiences
with fulfillment performed by us. We provide to our customers free shipping
alternatives, and although these shipping offers do not directly affect
marketing expenses, we view these offers as an effective marketing tool. We
intend to continue offering these free shipping alternatives
indefinitely.
18
Table of Contents
Technology and Content
Technology and content expenses consist principally of payroll and related
expenses for development, editorial, systems and telecommunications operations
personnel; systems and telecommunications infrastructure; and costs of acquired
content, including freelance reviews. Technology and content expenses were $50
million and $55 million for the three months ended March 31, 2003 and 2002,
respectively, representing 5% and 7% of net sales, respectively. The decline in
absolute dollars spent in comparison with the prior year period primarily
reflects efficiency improvements in our systems infrastructure, as well as
improved expense management and general price reductions in some expense
categories. We expect to continue to invest in technology and improvements to
our Web sites, which may include, but are not limited to, hiring additional
employees, offering additional Web site features and product categories to our
customers and implementing additional commercial relationships, as well as
potentially continuing our international expansion.
General and Administrative
General and administrative expenses consist of payroll and related
expenses for executive, finance and administrative personnel, human resources,
professional fees and other general corporate expenses. General and
administrative expenses were $21 million for each of the three month periods
ended March 31, 2003 and 2002, representing 2% of net sales for each period.
Stock-Based Compensation
Stock-based compensation consisted of the following (in thousands):
Employee stock awards include employee stock options, restricted stock
units and restricted stock. Stock options and restricted stock units are
excluded from common stock outstanding, whereas grants of restricted stock are
included in common stock outstanding. Common shares outstanding plus
shares underlying stock-based employee awards totaled
432 million at March 31, 2003, a decrease of 1%
compared with March 31, 2002.
Outstanding stock awards were as follows (in thousands):
19
Table of Contents
Using the following hypothetical market prices of our common stock above
and below our March 31, 2003 closing price of
$26.03, our hypothetical stock-based compensation expense for the three
months ended March 31, 2003 would have been affected by variable accounting
treatment as follows (in thousands, except percentages and per share amounts):
If at the end of any quarter the quoted price of our common stock is lower
than the quoted price at the end of the previous quarter, or to the extent
previously-recorded amounts relate to unvested portions of options that were
cancelled, compensation expense associated with variable accounting will be
recalculated using the cumulative expense method and may result in a net
benefit to our results of operations.
Restricted stock and restricted stock units are measured at fair value on
the date of grant based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of
our common stock. Such value is recognized as an expense over the corresponding
service period. To the extent restricted stock or restricted stock
units are forfeited as a result of termination prior to vesting, the
corresponding previously recognized expense is reversed as an offset to
"Stock-based compensation."
Restructuring-Related and Other
As previously disclosed, in the first quarter of 2001 we announced and
began implementation of our operational restructuring plan. The restructuring
is complete; however, we may adjust our restructuring-related estimates in the
future, if necessary. Restructuring-related and other expenses were $10 million
for the three months ended March 31, 2002 associated with our revised estimates
of ongoing lease obligations for our facilities in Seattle, Washington and
McDonough, Georgia. No similar expenses were incurred during the three months
ended March 31, 2003.
Cash payments resulting from our operational restructuring during the
three months ended March 31, 2003 and 2002 were $16 million and $14 million,
respectively. In December 2002, we reached a termination agreement with the
landlord of our leased fulfillment center facility in McDonough, Georgia. This
agreement resulted in $12 million of cash payments in the first quarter of
2003, including $8 million associated with the termination agreement and $4
million associated with restoration costs. No further payments are required
relating to the McDonough, Georgia facility. We estimate, based on currently
available information, the remaining net cash outflows associated with our
restructuring-related commitments will be as follows (in thousands):
Segment Operating Income
Our North America segment operating income was $52 million and $35 million
for the three months ended March 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, representing
an increase of 46%. This improvement primarily results from increasing revenues
and leverage in our direct cost structure relative to sales growth. These improvements
were partially offset by a 1% decline in segment gross margin.
20
Table of Contents
Our International segment operating income was $16 million in comparison
to a loss of $11 million for the three months ended March 31, 2003 and 2002,
respectively. This improvement primarily results from revenue growth, which was
68%. Also contributing to the improvement in our International segment
operating income was leverage in our direct cost structure relative to sales growth.
Gross margin for each respective period was 22%.
Income from Operations
Our results from operations were income of $39 million and $2 million for
the three months ended March 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The improvement
in operating results in comparison with the prior year was attributable to an
improvement in consolidated segment operating income, a decline in
restructuring-related charges, and a decline in amortization of other
intangibles, offset by increases in stock-based compensation charges primarily
associated with variable accounting treatment of certain stock
awards. Income from operations benefited $4 million in
comparison to the first quarter of 2002 due to changes in foreign
exchange rates as the U.S. Dollar weakened in comparison to the
Euro and British Pound. We are unable to
forecast accurately the effect on our future reported results associated with
variable accounting treatment on certain stock awards and with future foreign
exchange fluctuations.
Net Interest Expense
Net interest expense was $30 million for each of the periods ended March
31, 2003 and 2002. Interest income was $7 million and $6 million for the three
months ended March 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, and interest expense was
$37 million and $35 million for these same periods, respectively. Interest
income fluctuates with prevailing interest rates and the average balance of
invested funds. Interest expense is primarily related to our 6.875% PEACS,
4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes and our 10% Senior Discount Notes.
Interest expense increased $1 million in comparison to the first quarter of
2002 due to changes in foreign exchange rates as the U.S. Dollar weakened in
comparison to the Euro.
Other Income, Net
Other income, net consisted of the following (in thousands):
Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and Other
Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and other consisted of the following (in
thousands):
Each period the remeasurement of our 6.875% PEACS's principal from Euros
to U.S. Dollars results in gains or losses recorded to "Remeasurement of 6.875%
PEACS and other," on our consolidated statements of operations.
21
Table of Contents
Equity in Losses of Equity-Method Investees
Equity-method losses were $0.4 million and $1.7 million for the three
months ended March 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Our basis in equity-method
investments was reduced to zero as of March 31, 2003. Equity-method losses are
only recorded until the underlying investments are reduced to zero.
Income Taxes
We have provided for current and deferred U.S. federal, state and foreign
income taxes for the current and all prior periods presented. Current and
deferred income taxes were provided with respect to jurisdictions where certain
of our subsidiaries produce taxable income. As of March 31, 2003, we have
recorded a net deferred tax asset of $3 million, classified in
"Other assets," which consists primarily of certain
state jurisdiction net operating loss carryforwards. We have provided a
valuation allowance for the remainder of our deferred tax asset, consisting
primarily of net operating loss carryforwards, because of uncertainty regarding
its realization.
At March 31, 2003, we had net operating loss carryforwards of
approximately $2.5 billion related to U.S. federal, state and foreign
jurisdictions. Utilization of net operating losses, which begin to expire at
various times starting in 2010, may be subject to certain limitations under
Sections 382 and 1502 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and other
limitations under state and foreign tax laws. Additionally, approximately $180
million of capital loss carryforwards begins to expire in 2005. Approximately
$1.2 billion of our net operating loss carryforwards relates to tax deductible
stock-based compensation in excess of amounts recognized for financial
reporting purposes. To the extent that net operating loss carryforwards, if
realized, relate to stock-based compensation, the resulting tax benefits will
be recorded to stockholders' equity, rather than to results of operations.
Net Loss
Net loss was $10 million and $23 million for the three months ended March
31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Year over year improvements during the first
quarter of 2003 result from a variety of factors, including improvements in
consolidated segment operating income, partially offset by stock-based
compensation charges primarily associated with variable accounting treatment of
certain stock awards and by losses arising from the remeasurement of our 6.875%
PEACS's principal from Euros to U.S. Dollars.
Although we reported improvement in our net loss relative to the prior
year comparable period, we believe this improvement is not necessarily
predictive of future results for a variety of reasons. For example, we are
unable to forecast the effect on our future reported results of certain items,
including the stock-based compensation charges or credits associated with
variable accounting treatment on certain stock awards that result from
fluctuations in our stock price and the gain or loss associated with the
remeasurement of our 6.875% PEACS that results from fluctuations in foreign
exchange rates. These items represented significant charges during the first
quarter of 2003 and may result in significant charges or credits in future
periods.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents and
marketable securities. Our cash and cash equivalents balance was $496 million
and $738 million, and our marketable securities balance was $587 million and
$563 million at March 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, respectively. Combined
cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $1.08 billion and $1.30
billion at March 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, respectively. In the second quarter of 2003, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance
will be impacted by the redemption of all of the remaining 10% Senior
Discount Notes for redemption payments totaling $277 million
plus accrued interest.
We have pledged a portion of our marketable securities as collateral for
standby letters of credit that guarantee certain of our contractual
obligations, a majority of which relates to property leases; the Euro Currency
Swap; and some of our real estate lease agreements. The amount of marketable
securities we are required to pledge pursuant to the Euro Currency Swap
fluctuates with the fair market value of the obligation. The change in the
total amount of collateral pledged under these agreements was as follows (in
thousands):
22
Table of Contents
As of March 31, 2003, our principal commitments consisted of long-term
indebtedness totaling $2.30 billion related primarily to our 6.875% PEACS,
4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes and 10% Senior Discount Notes; trade
payables of $394 million; and accrued expenses and other liabilities of $234
million, which includes current restructuring-related obligations of $12
million. In April 2003, we announced the redemption of our 10% Senior
Discount Notes in the second quarter of 2003 pursuant to the
underlying indenture for redemption payments totaling
$277 million plus accrued interest. Additionally, we are scheduled under certain of our long-term debt
obligations to make periodic interest payments through 2010 in the aggregate of
$869 million, which will be reduced to $739 million following the redemption of our 10% Senior Discount Notes, and are obligated under operating leases and commitments for
advertising and promotional arrangements in the aggregate of $349 million and
$6 million, respectively.
The following are our contractual commitments associated with our
operational restructuring, indebtedness, lease obligations and marketing
agreements (in thousands):
Restructuring-related lease obligations are as follows (in thousands):
Net cash used in operating activities was $252 million and $241 million
for the three months ended March 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The seasonal
nature our business in relation to the holiday shopping season, together with
the payment terms we have arranged with our vendors, generally results in
settlement of our holiday season obligations during the first quarter of the
following year. This seasonal effect results in net cash outflows from our
operations during the first calendar quarter of each year. Additional factors
affecting operating cash flows include the timing of inventory purchases,
including purchases to obtain additional vendor discounts offered, and other
working capital management decisions, as well as the sales and returns pace at
the end of each reporting period.
Net cash used in investing activities was $30 million and $3 million for
the three months ended March 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The primary
activities affecting these cash flows are investment management activities
(purchases and sales of marketable securities), and investments in fixed
assets. During the three months ended March 31, 2003, net purchases of
marketable securities were $24 million and purchases of fixed assets, including
internal-use software costs, were $6 million. In the prior year period, sales
and maturities of marketable securities exceeded purchases by $2 million and
purchases of fixed assets, including
23
Table of Contents
internal-use software costs, were $5 million.
Cash provided by financing activities was $35 million and $3 million
during the three months ended March 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The
primary activities affecting these cash flows are cash proceeds from exercises
of stock options and repayment of capital lease obligations. During the three
months ended March 31, 2003 and 2002, cash proceeds from exercises of stock
options were $39 million and $7 million, respectively, and repayments of
capital lease obligations were $3 million and $5 million, respectively. We
expect cash proceeds from exercises of stock options to decline over time as we
plan to issue restricted stock units as our primary vehicle for employee
stock-based awards.
We
believe that current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities
balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at
least the next 12 months. However, any projections of future cash needs and
cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See "Additional Factors that
May Affect Future Results." We continually evaluate opportunities to sell
additional equity or debt securities, obtain credit facilities from lenders, or
restructure our long-term debt for strategic reasons or to further strengthen
our financial position. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt
securities could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. In
addition, we will, from time to time, consider the acquisition of or investment
in complementary businesses, products, services and technologies, and the
repurchase and retirement of debt, which might affect our liquidity
requirements or cause us to issue additional equity or debt securities. There
can be no assurance that financing will be available in amounts or on terms
acceptable to us, if at all.
Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results
The following risk factors and other information included in this
Quarterly Report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties
described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and
uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial
also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur,
our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be
materially adversely affected.
We Have an Accumulated Deficit and May Incur Additional Losses
We have incurred significant losses since we began doing business. As of
March 31, 2003, we had an accumulated deficit of $3.02 billion and our
stockholders' equity was a deficit of $1.29 billion. We have incurred
substantial operating losses since our inception, and we may continue to incur
such losses for the foreseeable future.
We Have Significant Indebtedness
As of March 31, 2003, we had total long-term indebtedness under our 10%
Senior Discount Notes, convertible notes, capitalized-lease obligations and
other asset financings of $2.30 billion ($262 million of this
indebtedness related to our 10% Senior Discount Notes, which we
announced that we will redeem in the second quarter of 2003 for
redemption payments totaling $277 million plus accrued interest). We make annual or semi-annual interest
payments on the indebtedness under our two tranches of convertible notes, which
are due in 2009 and 2010, respectively. We may incur substantial additional debt in the future.
Our indebtedness could limit our ability to obtain necessary additional
financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements
or other purposes in the future; to plan for, or react to, changes in
technology and in our business and competition; and to react in the event of an
economic downturn.
There is no guarantee that we will be able to meet our debt service
obligations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or obtain funds
for required payments, or if we fail to comply with covenants in our
indebtedness, we will be in default.
We Face Intense Competition
The market segments in which we compete are rapidly evolving and intensely
competitive, and we have many competitors in different industries, including
both the retail and e-commerce services industries.
Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating
histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly
greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. They may be able
to secure merchandise from vendors on more favorable terms and may be able to
adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Competitors in both the retail and
e-commerce services industries also may be able to devote more resources to
technology development and marketing than us.
Competition in the e-commerce channel may intensify. Other companies in
the retail and e-commerce service industries may enter
24
Table of Contents
into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive
positions. As various Internet market segments obtain large, loyal customer
bases, participants in those segments may expand into the market segments in
which we operate. In addition, new and expanded Web technologies may further
intensify the competitive nature of online retail. The nature of the Internet
as an electronic marketplace facilitates competitive entry and comparison
shopping and renders it inherently more competitive than conventional retailing
formats. This increased competition may reduce our sales, operating profits, or
both.
Our Business Could Suffer if We Are Unsuccessful in Making, Integrating and Maintaining
Commercial Agreements, Strategic Alliances and Other Business Relationships
We may enter into commercial agreements, strategic alliances and other
business relationships with other companies. We have entered into agreements to
provide e-commerce services to other businesses and we plan to enter into
similar agreements in the future. Under such agreements, we may perform
services such as: providing our technology services such as search, browse and
personalization; permitting other businesses and individuals to offer products
or services through our Web sites; and powering third-party Web sites, either
with or without providing accompanying fulfillment services. These arrangements
are complex and initially require substantial personnel and resource
commitments by us, which may constrain the number of such agreements we are
able to enter into and may affect our ability to deliver services under the
relevant agreements. If we fail to implement, maintain and develop successfully
the various components of such arrangements, which may include fulfillment,
customer service, inventory management, tax collection, payment processing and
licensing of third party software, hardware and content, these initiatives may
not be viable. The amount of compensation we receive under certain of these
agreements is dependent on the volume of sales that the other company makes.
Therefore, if the other business's Web site or product or services offering is
not successful, we may not receive all of the compensation we are otherwise due
under the agreement or may not be able to maintain the agreement. Moreover, we
may not be able to succeed in our plans to enter into additional commercial
relationships and strategic alliances on favorable terms.
As our commercial agreements expire or otherwise terminate, we may be
unable to renew or replace these agreements on comparable terms, or at all. In
the past, we amended several of our commercial agreements to reduce future cash
proceeds to be received by us, shorten the term of our commercial agreements,
or both. Some of our agreements involve high margin services, such as marketing
and promotional agreements, and as such agreements expire they may be replaced,
if at all, by agreements involving lower margin services. In addition, several
past commercial agreements were with companies that experienced business
failures and were unable to meet their obligations to us. We may in the future
enter into further amendments of these agreements or encounter other parties
that have difficulty meeting their contractual obligations to us, which could
adversely affect our operating results.
In addition, our present and future third-party services agreements, other
commercial agreements, joint ventures, investments and business combinations
create risks such as:
Our Investments and the Consideration We Receive under Certain Commercial Agreements May Subject Us to a Number of Risks
In the past, we have entered into commercial agreements with other
companies, including strategic alliances where we perform certain e-commerce
services, and in exchange for our services we received cash, equity securities
of these companies, and/or additional benefits, such as Web site traffic. The
amount of compensation we receive under certain of these agreements is
dependent on the volume of sales made by the other company. In some cases, we
have also made separate investments in the other company by making a cash
payment in exchange for equity securities of that company. We may make similar
investments in the future. To the extent we have received equity securities as
compensation, fluctuations in the value of such securities will affect our
ultimate realization of amounts we have received as compensation for services.
In the past, we amended several of our commercial agreements to reduce
future cash proceeds to be received by us, shorten the term of our commercial
agreements, or both. We may in the future enter into further amendments of our
commercial agreements. Although these amendments did not affect the amount of
unearned revenue previously recorded by us (if any), the timing of revenue
25
Table of Contents
recognition of these recorded unearned amounts has been changed to correspond
with the terms of the amended agreements. To the extent we believe any such
amendments cause or may cause the compensation to be received under an
agreement to no longer be fixed or determinable, we limit our revenue
recognition to amounts received, excluding any future amounts not deemed fixed
or determinable. As future amounts are subsequently received, such amounts are
incorporated into our revenue recognition over the remaining term of the
agreement.
Our investments in equity securities are included in "Marketable securities" and "Other equity
investments" on our balance sheets. We regularly review all of our investments
in public and private companies for other-than-temporary declines in fair
value. When we determine that the decline in fair value of an investment below
our accounting basis is other-than-temporary, we reduce the carrying value of
the securities we hold and record a loss in the amount of any such decline. In
recent years, securities of companies in the Internet and e-commerce industries
have experienced significant difficulties. We may conclude in future quarters
that the fair values of other of these investments have experienced an
other-than-temporary decline. As of March 31, 2003, our recorded basis in
equity securities was $18 million, including $4 million classified as
"Marketable securities" and $13 million classified as "Other equity
investments." Our basis in equity-method investments was reduced to zero as of
March 31, 2003.
The Seasonality of Our Business Places Increased Strain on Our Operations
We expect a disproportionate amount of our net sales to be realized during
the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. If we do not stock popular products in
sufficient amounts and fail to meet customer demand, it could significantly
affect our revenue and our future growth. If we overstock products, we may be
required to take significant inventory markdowns or write-offs, which could
reduce gross profits. A failure to optimize inventory in our fulfillment
network will harm our shipping margins by requiring us to make partial
shipments from one or more locations. We may experience a decline in our
shipping margins due to complimentary upgrades, split-shipments and additional
long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely delivery, especially for the
holiday season. If the other businesses on whose behalf we perform inventory
fulfillment services deliver product to our fulfillment centers in excess of
forecasts, we may be unable to secure sufficient storage space and may be
unable to optimize our fulfillment centers. If too many customers access our
Web sites within a short period of time due to increased holiday or other
demand, we may experience system interruptions that make our Web sites
unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce
the volume of goods we sell and the attractiveness of our products and
services. In addition, we may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment
centers during these peak periods and third parties that provide fulfillment
services to our customers may be unable to meet the seasonal demand. Finally,
we, along with our customer service outsourcers, may be unable to adequately
staff customer service centers.
We generally have payment terms with our vendors that extend beyond the
amount of time necessary to collect proceeds from our customers. As a result of
holiday sales, at December 31 of each year, our cash, cash equivalents and
marketable securities balances reach their highest level (other than as a
result of cash flows provided by investing and financing activities). This
operating cycle results in a corresponding increase in accounts payable. Our
accounts payable balance will decline during the first three months following
year-end, which will result in a decline in the amount of cash, cash
equivalents and marketable securities on hand.
We May Experience Significant Fluctuations in Our Operating Results and Rate of Growth
Due to our limited operating history, our evolving business model and the
unpredictability of our industry, we may not be able to accurately forecast our
rate of growth. We base our current and future expense levels and our
investment plans on estimates of future net sales and rate of growth. Our
expenses and investments are to a large extent fixed. We may not be able to
adjust our spending quickly enough if our net sales fall short of our
expectations.
Our revenue and operating profit growth depends on the continued growth of
demand for the products offered by us or our sellers, and our business is
affected by general economic and business conditions throughout the world. A
softening of demand, whether caused by changes in consumer preferences or a
weakening of the U.S. or global economies, may result in decreased revenue or
growth. Terrorist attacks and armed hostilities create economic and consumer
uncertainty that could adversely affect our revenue or growth. Such events
could create delays in and increase the cost of product shipments to and from
us, which may decrease demand. Revenue growth may not be sustainable and our
company-wide percentage growth rate may decrease in the future.
Our net sales and operating results will also fluctuate for many other
reasons, including:
26
Table of Contents
Finally, both seasonal fluctuations in Internet usage and traditional
retail seasonality are likely to affect our business. Internet usage generally
slows during the summer months, and sales in almost all of our product groups,
particularly toys and electronics, usually increase significantly in the fourth
calendar quarter of each year.
We Have Foreign Exchange Risk
The results of operations of our internationally-focused Web sites are
exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the
applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into U.S.
Dollars upon consolidation. As exchange rates vary, net sales and other
operating results, when translated, may differ materially from expectations.
In addition, 6.875% PEACS are denominated in Euros, not U.S. Dollars. When
we periodically remeasure the principal of the 6.875% PEACS based on
fluctuations in the Euro/U.S. Dollar exchange ratio, we will record non-cash
gains or losses in "Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and other" on our statements
of operations. Furthermore, we have invested some of the proceeds from the
6.875% PEACS in Euro-denominated cash equivalents and marketable securities.
Accordingly, if the U.S. Dollar strengthens compared to the Euro, cash
equivalents and marketable securities balances, when translated, may be
materially less than expected and vice versa.
Our Past and Planned Future Growth Will Place a Significant Strain on our Management, Operational and Financial
Resources
We have rapidly and significantly expanded our operations and will
endeavor to expand further to pursue growth of our product and service
offerings and customer base. Such growth will continue to place a significant
strain on our management, operational and financial resources. We also need to
train and manage our employee base. Our current and planned personnel, systems,
procedures and controls may not be adequate to support and effectively manage
our future operations. We may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and
manage required personnel, which may limit our growth.
In addition, we do not expect to benefit in our newer market segments from
the first-to-market advantage that we experienced in the online book channel.
Our gross profits in our newer business activities may be lower than in our
older business activities. In addition, we may have limited or no experience in
new product and service activities and our customers may not favorably receive
our new businesses. To the extent we pursue strategic alliances to facilitate
new product or service activities, the alliances may not be successful. If any
of this were to occur, it could damage our reputation and negatively affect
revenue growth.
The Loss of Key Senior Management Personnel Could Negatively Affect Our Business
We depend on the continued services and performance of our senior
management and other key personnel, particularly Jeffrey P. Bezos, our
President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. We do not have
"key person" life insurance policies. The loss of any of our executive officers
or other key employees could harm our business.
27
Table of Contents
System Interruption and the Lack of Integration and Redundancy in Our Systems May Affect Our Sales
Customer access to our Web sites directly affects the volume of goods we
sell and the services we offer and thus affects our net sales. We experience
occasional system interruptions that make our Web sites unavailable or prevent
us from efficiently fulfilling orders or providing services to third parties,
which may reduce our net sales and the attractiveness of our products and
services. To prevent system interruptions, we continually need to add
additional software and hardware and upgrade our systems and network
infrastructure to accommodate both increased traffic on our Web sites and
increased sales volume.
Our computer and communications systems and operations could be damaged or
interrupted by fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins,
earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God, computer viruses, physical
or electronic break-ins and similar events or disruptions. Any of these events
could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, and could
prevent us from accepting and fulfilling customer orders. Should this occur, it
would make our product offerings less attractive to our customers and our
service offerings less attractive to third parties. While we do have backup
systems for certain aspects of our operations, our systems are not fully
redundant and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all
eventualities. In addition, we may have inadequate insurance coverage or
insurance limits to compensate us for losses from a major interruption. If any
of this were to occur, it could damage our reputation and be expensive to
remedy.
We May Not Be Successful in Our Efforts to Expand into International Market Segments
We plan, over time, to continue to expand our reach in international
market segments. We have relatively little experience in purchasing, marketing
and distributing products or services for these market segments and may not
benefit from any first-to-market advantages. It is costly to establish
international facilities and operations, promote our brand internationally and
develop localized Web sites, stores and other systems. We may not succeed in
these efforts. Our net sales from international market segments may not offset
the expense of establishing and maintaining the related operations and,
therefore, these operations may not be profitable on a sustained basis.
Our international sales and related operations are subject to a number of
risks inherent in selling abroad, including, but not limited to, risks with
respect to:
As the international e-commerce channel continues to grow, competition
will likely intensify. Local companies may have a substantial competitive
advantage because of their greater understanding of, and focus on, the local
customer, as well as their more established local brand name recognition. In
addition, governments in foreign jurisdictions may regulate e-commerce or other
online services in such areas as content, privacy, network security, copyright,
encryption, taxation or distribution. We may not be able to hire, train,
retain, motivate and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth in
international market segments.
28
Table of Contents
We Face Significant Inventory Risk
We are exposed to significant inventory risks as a result of seasonality,
new product launches, rapid changes in product cycles and changes in consumer
tastes with respect to our products. In order to be successful, we must
accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking or under-stocking
products. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the
time inventory is ordered and the date of sale. In addition, when we begin
selling a new product, it is particularly difficult to forecast product demand
accurately. A failure to optimize inventory within our fulfillment network will
harm our shipping margins by requiring us to make split shipments from one or
more locations, complimentary upgrades and additional long-zone shipments
necessary to ensure timely delivery. As a result of our Merchants@ program
relationships with Toysrus.com, Babiesrus.com, Target and other companies,
these parties identify, buy, manage and bear the financial risk of inventory
obsolescence for their corresponding stores and merchandise. As a result, if
any of these parties fail to forecast product demand or optimize inventory, we
would receive reduced service fees under the agreements and our business and
reputation could be harmed.
The acquisition of certain types of inventory, or inventory from certain
sources, may require significant lead-time and prepayment, and such inventory
may not be returnable. We carry a broad selection and significant inventory
levels of certain products, such as consumer electronics, and we may be unable
to sell products in sufficient quantities or during the relevant selling
seasons.
Our ability to receive inbound inventory efficiently or ship completed
orders to customers may be negatively affected by a number of factors,
including dependence on a limited number of shipping companies, inclement
weather, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, labor disputes, acts of war or
terrorism or acts of God.
Any one of the inventory risk factors set forth above may adversely affect
our operating results.
If We Do Not Successfully Optimize and Operate Our Fulfillment Centers, Our Business Could Be Harmed
If we do not successfully operate our fulfillment centers, it could
significantly limit our ability to meet customer demand. Because it is
difficult to predict sales volume, we may not manage our facilities in an
optimal way, which may result in excess or insufficient inventory, warehousing,
fulfillment and distribution capacity. In addition, third parties either
drop-ship or otherwise fulfill an increasing portion of our customers' orders,
and we are increasingly reliant on the reliability, quality and future
procurement of their services. Finally, under some of our commercial
agreements, we maintain the inventory of other companies in our fulfillment
centers, thereby increasing the complexity of tracking inventory in and
operating our fulfillment centers. Our failure to properly handle such
inventory or the inability or failure of these other companies to accurately
forecast product demand would result in unexpected costs and other harm to our
business and reputation.
We May Not Be Able to Adequately Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights or May Be Accused of Infringing
Intellectual Property Rights of Third Parties
We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress,
trade secrets, proprietary technology and similar intellectual property as
critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright and patent law,
trade secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our
employees, customers, partners and others to protect our proprietary rights.
Effective trademark, service mark, copyright, patent and trade secret
protection may not be available in every country in which our products and
services are made available online.
We also may not be able to acquire or maintain appropriate domain names in
all countries in which we do business. Furthermore, regulations governing
domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. We
may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are
similar to, infringe upon or diminish the value of our trademarks and other
proprietary rights.
Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is inherently
difficult, and we may not be able to determine the existence or extent of any
such unauthorized use. The protection of our intellectual property may require
the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, we
cannot be certain that the steps we take to protect our intellectual property
will adequately protect our rights or that others will not independently
develop or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology or other
intellectual property rights.
Third parties that license our proprietary rights may take actions that
diminish the value of our proprietary rights or reputation. In
29
Table of Contents
addition, the steps we take to protect our proprietary rights may not be
adequate and third parties may infringe or misappropriate our copyrights,
trademarks, trade dress, patents and similar proprietary rights. Other parties
may claim that we infringed their proprietary rights. We have been subject to,
and expect to continue to be subject to, claims and legal proceedings regarding
alleged infringement by us of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual
property rights of third parties. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, may
result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources,
injunctions against us or the imposition of damages that we must pay. We may
need to obtain licenses from third parties who allege that we have infringed
their rights, but such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to us
or at all. In addition, we may not be able to obtain or utilize on terms which
are favorable to us, or at all, licenses or other rights with respect to
intellectual property we do not own in providing e-commerce services to other
businesses and individuals under commercial agreements.
We Have a Limited Operating History and Our Stock Price Is Highly Volatile
We have a relatively short operating history and, as an e-commerce
company, we have a rapidly evolving and unpredictable business model. The
trading price of our common stock fluctuates significantly. Trading prices of
our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors,
such as:
Any of these events may cause our stock price to rise or fall and may
adversely affect our business and financing opportunities.
Future volatility in our stock price could force us to increase our cash
compensation to employees or grant larger stock awards than we have
historically, which could hurt our operating results or reduce the percentage
ownership of our existing stockholders, or both. In the first quarter of 2001,
we offered a limited non-compulsory exchange of employee stock options. This
option exchange offer resulted in variable accounting treatment for certain of
our stock options. Additionally, all options granted on or after January 1,
2003 are subject to variable accounting treatment. Variable accounting
treatment will result in unpredictable stock-based compensation expense
dependent on fluctuations in quoted prices for our common stock. In late 2002,
we implemented a restricted stock unit plan, which will be our primary vehicle
for employee stock-based compensation going forward. Restricted stock and
restricted stock units are measured at fair value on the date of grant based on
the number of shares granted and the quoted price of the common stock, which
will be recognized as compensation expense ratably over the corresponding
employee service term.
Government Regulation of the Internet and E-commerce Is Evolving and Unfavorable Changes
Could Harm our Business
We are subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as
regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Such
existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet
or other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, user
privacy, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts,
consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband
residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality of products and
services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property
ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply to the
Internet and e-commerce. Unfavorable resolution of these issues may harm our
business. In addition, many jurisdictions currently regulate "auctions" and
"auctioneers" and may regulate online auction services. Jurisdictions may also
regulate consumer-to-consumer fixed price online markets, like zShops and
certain aspects of Amazon Marketplace. This could, in turn, diminish the demand
for our products and services and increase our cost of doing business.
30
Table of Contents
We May Be Subject to Liability for Past Sales and Our Future Sales May Decrease
In accordance with current industry practice, we do not collect sales
taxes or other taxes with respect to shipments of most of our goods into states
other than Washington and North Dakota. Under some of our commercial
agreements, the other company is the seller of record of the applicable
merchandise and we are obligated to collect sales tax in most states in
accordance with that company's instructions. We may enter into additional
strategic alliances requiring similar tax collection obligations. We collect
Value Added Tax, or VAT, for products that are ordered on ,
and and delivered in European Union member
countries. We also collect Japanese consumption tax for products that are
ordered on and delivered in Japan. In addition, Canadian
consumption taxes are collected on sales of products that are ordered on
and delivered in Canada. Our fulfillment center and customer
service center networks, and any future expansion of those networks, along with
other aspects of our evolving business, may result in additional sales and
other tax obligations. One or more states or foreign countries may seek to
impose sales or other tax collection obligations on out-of-jurisdiction
companies which engage in e-commerce. A successful assertion by one or more
states or foreign countries that we should collect sales or other taxes on the
sale of merchandise could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales,
decrease our ability to compete with traditional retailers and otherwise harm
our business.
Currently, decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court restrict the imposition of
obligations to collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect to
sales made over the Internet. However, a number of states, as well as the U.S.
Congress, have been considering various initiatives that could limit or
supersede the Supreme Court's position regarding sales and use taxes on
Internet sales. If any of these initiatives addressed the Supreme Court's
constitutional concerns and resulted in a reversal of its current position, we
could be required to collect sales and use taxes in states other than
Washington and North Dakota. The imposition by state and local governments of
various taxes upon Internet commerce could create administrative burdens for us
and could decrease our future sales.
Various countries are currently evaluating their VAT positions on
e-commerce transactions. Recently, for example, the European Union ("EU")
enacted a directive requiring that businesses in non-EU countries selling
digital products and services to EU resident consumers collect and remit VAT in
the country of the consumer's residence. This directive will become effective
on July 1, 2003, and will result in additional VAT collection obligations and
administrative burdens and may decrease our future sales to customers in the
EU. Future VAT legislation or changes to our business model may have similar
impacts.
We Source a Significant Portion of Our Inventory from a Few Vendors
Although we continue to increase our direct purchasing from manufacturers,
we source a significant amount of inventory from relatively few vendors. During
the three months ended March 31, 2003, we purchased over 10% of all inventory
purchases from a single vendor, Ingram Book Group. No other vendors account for
over 10%. We do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with most of our
vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms,
or the extension of credit limits. If our current vendors were to stop selling
merchandise to us on acceptable terms, we may not be able to acquire
merchandise from other suppliers in a timely and efficient manner and on
acceptable terms.
We May Be Subject to Product Liability Claims if People or Property Are Harmed by the Products We Sell
Some of our products, such as toys, tools, hardware, computers, cell
phones, kitchen and housewares and other products, may expose us to product
liability claims relating to personal injury, death or property damage caused
by such products, and may require us to take actions such as product recalls.
Certain businesses and individuals also may sell products that may increase our
exposure to product liability claims, such as if these sellers do not have
sufficient resources to protect themselves from such claims. Although we
maintain liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be
adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to
be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. In addition,
some of our vendor agreements with our suppliers do not indemnify us from
product liability.
We Could Be Liable for Breaches of Security on Our Web Site and Fraudulent Activities of Users of
Our Amazon Payments Program
A fundamental requirement for e-commerce is the secure transmission of
confidential information over public networks. Although we have developed
systems and processes that are designed to protect consumer information and
prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches,
failure to mitigate such fraud or breaches may adversely affect our operating
results.
The law relating to the liability of providers of online payment services
is currently unsettled. In addition, we are aware that
31
Table of Contents
governmental agencies have investigated the provision of online payment
services and could require changes in the way this business is conducted. We
guarantee payments made through Amazon Payments up to certain limits for both
buyers and sellers, and we may be unable to prevent users of Amazon Payments
from fraudulently receiving goods when payment may not be made to a seller or
fraudulently collecting payments when goods may not be shipped to a buyer. Our
liability risk will increase if a larger fraction of our sellers use Amazon
Payments. Any costs we incur as a result of liability because of our guarantee
of payments made through Amazon Payments or otherwise could harm our business.
In addition, the functionality of Amazon Payments depends on certain
third-party vendors delivering services. If these vendors are unable or
unwilling to provide services, Amazon Payments will not be viable (and our
businesses that use Amazon Payments may not be viable).
We May Not Be Able to Adapt Quickly Enough to Changing Customer Requirements and
Industry Standards
Technology in the e-commerce industry changes rapidly. We may not be able
to adapt quickly enough to changing customer requirements and preferences and
industry standards. Competitors often introduce new products and services with
new technologies. These changes and the emergence of new industry standards and
practices could render our existing Web sites and proprietary technology
obsolete.
The Internet as a Medium for Commerce Is Uncertain
Consumer use of the Internet as a medium for commerce is a recent
phenomenon and is subject to a high level of uncertainty. While the number of
Internet users has been rising, the Internet infrastructure may not expand fast
enough to meet the increased levels of demand. If use of the Internet as a
medium for commerce does not continue to grow or grows at a slower rate than we
anticipate, our sales would be lower than expected and our business would be
harmed.
We Could Be Liable for Unlawful or Fraudulent Activities by Users of Our Merchants@ program,
Merchant.com program, Amazon Marketplace, Auctions and zShops Services
We may be unable to prevent users of our Merchants@ program, Merchant.com
program, Amazon Marketplace, Auctions and zShops services from selling unlawful
goods, or from selling goods in an unlawful manner. We may face civil or
criminal liability for unlawful and fraudulent activities by our users under
U.S. laws and/or the laws and regulations of other countries. In addition, if
we are unsuccessful in preventing our users from providing content that is
either illegal or which violates the proprietary rights of others, it may
result in liability to us. Any costs we incur as a result of liability relating
to the sale of unlawful goods, the unlawful sale of goods, the fraudulent
receipt of goods or the fraudulent collection of payments could harm our
business. In running our Merchants@ program, Merchant.com program, Amazon
Marketplace, Auctions and zShops services, we rely on sellers to make accurate
representations and provide reliable delivery, and on buyers to pay the agreed
purchase price. We do not take responsibility for delivery of payment or goods
and, while we can suspend or terminate the accounts of users who fail to
fulfill their delivery obligations, we cannot require users to make payments or
deliver goods. We do not compensate users who believe they have been defrauded
by other users except through our guarantee program. Under our guarantee
program, fraudulent activities by our users, such as the fraudulent receipt of
goods and the fraudulent collection of payments, may create liability for us.
Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk
We are exposed to market risk for the effect of interest rate changes,
foreign currency fluctuations and changes in the market values of our
investments.
Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosure about
market risk is set forth below and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Liquidity and Capital
Resources."
Interest Rate Risk
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates
primarily to our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. All of our cash
equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are designated as
available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented at fair value on our balance
sheets. We generally invest our excess cash in A-rated or higher short- to
intermediate-term fixed income securities and money market mutual funds. Fixed
rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a
rise in interest rates, and we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell
securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates.
32
Table of Contents
At
March 31, 2003, we had long-term debt of $2.30 billion primarily
associated with our 6.875% PEACS, 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes and 10%
Senior Discount Notes, which are due in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively ($262 million of this indebtedness related to our 10% Senior
Discount Notes, which we announced that we will redeem in the
second quarter of 2003 for redemption payments totaling
$277 million plus accrued interest). Our
payment commitments associated with these debt instruments are fixed during the
corresponding terms and are comprised of interest payments, principal payments,
or a combination thereof. The market value of our long-term debt will fluctuate
with movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of
interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. Based upon
quoted market prices, the fair value of the 6.875% PEACS was $662 million and
$531 million at March 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, respectively, the fair
value of the 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes was $1.053 billion and $925
million at March 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, respectively, and the fair
value of the outstanding 10% Senior Discount Notes was $270 million and $263
million as of March 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, respectively.
Foreign Exchange Risk
During the three months ended March 31, 2003, net sales from our
International segment (consisting of , ,
and ) accounted for 35% of our consolidated
revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from these Web sites, as
well as those relating to , are denominated in the functional
currencies of the corresponding Web sites. The functional currency of our
subsidiaries that either operate or support these Web sites is the same as the
corresponding local currency. Results of operations from our foreign
subsidiaries and our subsidiaries that operate our internationally focused Web
sites are exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations as the financial results of
these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars at average rates prevailing
during the year upon consolidation. As exchange rates vary, net sales and other
operating results, when translated, may differ materially from expectations.
During the three months ended March 31, 2003, International segment revenues
improved $50 million and overall results from operations improved $4 million in
comparison with the same period in the prior year due to fluctuations in
foreign exchange rates.
At March 31, 2003, we were also exposed to foreign exchange risk related
to Euro-denominated cash equivalents and marketable securities ("Euro
Investments"), as well as our 6.875% PEACS. As of March 31, 2003 the Euro
Investments, classified as available-for-sale, had a balance of $39 million
Euros ($43 million, based on the exchange rate as of March 31, 2003). Our
6.875% PEACS have an outstanding principal balance of 690 million Euros ($753
million, based on the exchange rate as of March 31, 2003), of which 75 million
Euros principal is hedged. Based on the outstanding Euro Investment balance at
March 31, 2003, an assumed 5%, 10% and 20% strengthening of the U.S. Dollar in
relation to the Euro would result in a corresponding decline in the total fair
value of such investments of approximately $2 million, $4 million and $9
million, respectively. Based on the outstanding (unhedged) 6.875% PEACS'
principal balance of 615 million Euros at March 31, 2003, an assumed 5%, 10%
and 20% weakening of the U.S. Dollar in relation to the Euro would result in
corresponding currency losses of approximately $34 million, $67 million and
$134 million, respectively, recorded to "Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and
other."
We hedge the foreign exchange risk on our 6.875% PEACS' principal of 75
million Euros and a portion of the interest payments using the Euro Currency
Swap. Under the agreement, we agreed to pay at inception and receive upon
maturity 75 million Euros in exchange for receiving at inception and paying at
maturity $67 million. In addition, we agreed to receive in February of each
year 27 million Euros corresponding with interest payments on 390 million Euros
of the 6.875% PEACS and, simultaneously, to pay $32 million. This agreement is
cancelable, in whole or in part, at our option at no cost on or after February
20, 2003 if our common stock price (converted into Euros) is greater than or
equal to 84.883 Euros, the minimum conversion price of the 6.875% PEACS. We
account for the Euro Currency Swap as a cash flow hedge of the risk of exchange
rate fluctuations on the debt principal and interest. Gains and losses on the
Euro Currency Swap are initially recorded in "Accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss)" on our balance sheets and recognized in "Remeasurement of 6.875%
PEACS and other" on our statements of operations upon the recognition of the
corresponding currency losses and gains on the remeasurement of the 6.875%
PEACS.
Investment Risk
As of March 31, 2003, our recorded basis in equity securities was $18
million, including $4 million classified as "Marketable
securities" and $13
million classified as "Other equity investments." We invest in the stock and/or
warrants of both private and public companies, including companies with which
we have formed commercial relationships, primarily for strategic purposes. At
March 31, 2003, we held investments in publicly-traded and privately held
companies with a recorded basis of $9 million and $8 million, respectively. We
regularly review the carrying value of our investments and identify and record
losses when events and circumstances indicate that such declines in the fair
value of such assets below our accounting basis are other-than-temporary.
During 2002, we recorded impairment losses totaling $8 million to write-down
several of our equity securities to fair value. No such impairments were
necessary during the three months ended March 31, 2003. The fair values of our
investments are subject to significant fluctuations due
33
Table of Contents
to volatility of the stock market and changes in general economic
conditions. Based on the fair value of the publicly-traded equity securities we
held at March 31, 2003 of $58 million (recorded basis of $9 million), an
assumed 15%, 30% and 50% adverse change to market prices of these securities
would result in a corresponding decline in total fair value of approximately $9
million, $17 million and $29 million, respectively.
Item 4. Controls and Procedures
Within 90 days prior to the date of this report, we carried out an
evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our principal
executive officer and principal financial officer, of the effectiveness of the
design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures. Based on this
evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer
concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective in timely
alerting them to material information required to be included in our periodic
SEC reports. It should be noted that the design of any system of controls is
based in part upon certain assumptions, and there can be no assurance that any
design will succeed in achieving its stated goals.
In addition, we reviewed our internal controls, and there have been no
significant changes in our internal controls or in other factors that could
significantly affect those controls subsequent to the date of their last
evaluation.
PART II. OTHER INFORMATION
Item 1. Legal Proceedings
On April 12, 2001, we received a request from the Securities and Exchange
Commission ("SEC") staff for the voluntary production of documents and
information concerning, among other things, previously reported sales of our
common stock by our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey Bezos, on
February 2 and 5, 2001. We have cooperated fully with the SEC staff's inquiry.
A number of purported class action complaints were filed by holders of the
our equity and debt securities against us, our directors and certain of our
senior officers during 2001, in the United States District Court for the
Western District of Washington, alleging violations of the Securities Act of
1933 (the "1933 Act") and/or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "1934
Act"). On October 5, 2001, plaintiffs in the 1934 Act cases filed a
consolidated amended complaint alleging that we, together with certain of our
officers and directors and certain third-parties, made false or misleading
statements during the period from October 29, 1998 through July 23, 2001
concerning our business, financial condition and results, inventories, future
prospects and strategic alliance transactions. The 1933 Act complaint alleges
that the defendants made false or misleading statements in connection with our
February 2000 offering of the 6.875% PEACS. The complaints seek recissionary
and/or compensatory damages and injunctive relief against all defendants. We
dispute the allegations of wrongdoing in these complaints and intend to
vigorously defend ourselves in these matters.
On August 28, 2002, the Trustee for the Creditors' Trust for Living.com
instituted an adversary proceeding against one of our subsidiaries in the
United States Bankruptcy Court for the Western District of Texas. The plaintiff
alleges that Living.com's creditors are entitled to a contractual recovery of
approximately $58 million in fees that Living.com had previously paid in 2000
primarily by issuing Living.com stock to us. On April 1, 2003, the Court
granted our Motion for Summary Judgment and issued a judgment dismissing all
claims brought against us in the proceeding with prejudice. We will defend
ourselves vigorously against any appeal that the plaintiff may take from this
judgment.
On October 29, 2002, Gary Gerlinger, individually and on behalf of all
other similarly situated consumers in the United States who, during the period
from August 1, 2001 to the present, purchased books online from either
Amazon.com or Borders.com, instituted an action against us and Borders in the
United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The
complaint alleges that the agreement pursuant to which an affiliate of
Amazon.com operates Borders.com as a co-branded site violates federal
anti-trust laws, California statutory law and the common law of unjust
enrichment. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages, including treble
damages or statutory damages where applicable, attorneys' fees, costs and
disbursements, disgorgement of all sums obtained by allegedly wrongful acts,
interest and declaratory relief. We dispute the plaintiff's allegations of
wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter.
On or about March 27, 2003, we were served with a complaint filed in the
Chancery Court of Davidson County, Tennessee, by a private litigant purportedly
on behalf of the State of Tennessee under the Tennessee False Claims Act. The
complaint alleges that we (along with other companies with which we have
commercial agreements) wrongfully failed to collect and remit sales and use
taxes for sales of personal property to customers in Tennessee and knowingly
created records and statements falsely stating we were not required to collect
or remit such taxes. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, unpaid taxes,
interest, attorneys' fees, civil penalties of
34
Table of Contents
up to $10,000 per violation, and treble damages under the state's False
Claims Act. Furthermore, we are aware that the private litigant in this case
has filed similar actions against other retailers in other states, and it is
possible that we have been or will be named in similar cases in other states as
well. We do not believe that we are liable under existing laws and regulations
for any failure to collect sales or other taxes relating to internet sales and
intend to vigorously defend ourselves in these matters.
Depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution of some
or all of these matters could materially affect our business, future results of
operations, financial position or cash flows in a particular period.
From time to time, we are subject to other legal proceedings and claims in
the ordinary course of business, including claims of alleged infringement of
trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights. We
currently are not aware of any such legal proceedings or claims that we
believes will have, individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect
on our business, financial condition, or operating results.
Item 2. Changes in Securities and Use of Proceeds
On
February 8, 2003, in connection with the exercise of a warrant
assumed in an acquisition, we issued 8,939 shares of our common stock
at a per share exercise price of $6.1588 to De Anza Properties in
reliance on an exemption from registration under
Section 4(a)(2) under the Securities Act.
Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities
None.
Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
None.
Item 5. Other Information
None.
Item 6. Exhibits and Reports on Form 8-K
(a) Exhibits
(b) Reports on Form 8-K
On
January 27, 2002, we filed a Form 8-K announcing our fourth
quarter 2002
financial results.
35
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 24, 2003
36
Table of Contents
CERTIFICATIONS
I, Jeffrey P. Bezos, certify that:
1. I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Amazon.com,
Inc.;
2. Based on my knowledge, this quarterly report does not contain any
untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary
to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
quarterly report;
3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this quarterly report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this quarterly report;
4. The registrant's other certifying officers and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and we have:
5. The registrant's other certifying officers and I have disclosed,
based on our most recent evaluation, to the registrant's auditors and the audit
committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent function):
6. The registrant's other certifying officers and I have indicated in
this quarterly report whether or not there were significant changes in internal
controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal controls
subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including any corrective
actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.
37
Table of Contents
CERTIFICATIONS
I, Thomas J. Szkutak, certify that:
1. I have reviewed this quarterly report on Form 10-Q of Amazon.com,
Inc.;
2. Based on my knowledge, this quarterly report does not contain any
untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary
to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
quarterly report;
3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this quarterly report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this quarterly report;
4. The registrant's other certifying officers and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and we have:
5. The registrant's other certifying officers and I have disclosed,
based on our most recent evaluation, to the registrant's auditors and the audit
committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent function):
6. The registrant's other certifying officers and I have indicated in
this quarterly report whether or not there were significant changes in internal
controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal controls
subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including any corrective
actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.
38
Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX
39