.
46
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (in millions, except per share data)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
47
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in millions, except per share data)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
48
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (in millions)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
49
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1--DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES Description of Business Amazon.com, a Fortune 500 company, opened its virtual doors on the World Wide Web in July 1995 and
today offers Earth's Biggest Selection. We seek to be Earth's most customer-centric company, where customers can find and discover anything they might want to buy online, and endeavor to offer customers the lowest possible prices.
Amazon.com operates retail websites and offers programs that enable third parties to sell products on our websites. Our retail websites
include , , , , , , , , and . We also provide services for third-party retailers,
marketing and promotional services, and web services for developers. In addition, we operate other websites, including and that enable search and navigation and , a comprehensive movie
database. We have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. See "Note 13--Segment
Information." Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and those entities (relating to ) in which we have a variable interest. Intercompany
balances and transactions have been eliminated. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited to, valuation of investments, receivables valuation, sales
returns, incentive discount offers, inventory valuation, depreciable lives of fixed assets, internally-developed software, valuation of acquired intangibles, income taxes, stock-based compensation, and contingencies. Actual results could differ
materially from those estimates. Earnings per Share Basic earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares. Diluted earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares including the dilutive effect
of stock awards as determined under the treasury stock method. Our convertible debt instruments are excluded from the calculation of
diluted earnings per share as their effect is antidilutive. See "Note 4--Long-Term Debt."
50
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
The following table shows the calculation of diluted shares (in millions):
Treasury Stock In 2006, we repurchased shares of our common stock pursuant to authorization from our
Board of Directors. We account for treasury stock under the cost method and include treasury stock as a component of stockholders' equity. Business Acquisitions We acquired certain companies during 2006 for an aggregate cash purchase price of $50 million,
including cash payments of $30 million and future cash payments of $19 million and $1 million due in 2007 and 2008. Acquired intangibles totaled $17 million and have estimated useful lives of between one and ten years. The excess of purchase price
over the fair value of the net assets acquired was $33 million and is classified as "Goodwill" on our consolidated balance sheets. In 2005, we acquired certain companies for an aggregate cash purchase price of $29 million. Acquired intangibles totaled $10 million and have estimated useful lives of between one and three years. The excess of purchase price over the fair
value of the net assets acquired was $19 million and is classified as "Goodwill" on our consolidated balance sheets. In 2004, we
acquired all of the outstanding shares of Joyo.com Limited, a British Virgin Islands company that operates an Internet retail website in the People's Republic of China ("PRC") in cooperation with a PRC subsidiary and PRC affiliates,
at a purchase price of $75 million, including a cash payment of $71 million (net of cash acquired), the assumption of employee stock options, and transaction-related costs. Acquired intangibles were $6 million with estimated useful lives of between
one and four years. The excess of purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired was $70 million and is classified as "Goodwill" on our consolidated balance sheets. The results of operations of Joyo.com have been included in
our consolidated results from the transaction closing date forward. Joyo.com does not own any capital stock of the PRC affiliates, but is
the primary beneficiary of future losses or profits through contractual rights. As a result, we consolidate the results of the PRC affiliates in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. (FIN) No. 46(R), Consolidation of Variable Interest
Entities. The results of operations of each of the businesses acquired in 2006, 2005, and 2004 have been included in our consolidated
results from each transaction closing date forward. The effect of these acquisitions on consolidated net sales and operating income during 2006, 2005, and 2004 was not significant.
51
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Cash and Cash Equivalents We classify all highly liquid instruments, including money market funds that comply with Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act of 1940, with a remaining
maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase as cash equivalents. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are accounted for using the FIFO method, and are valued at the lower of cost or market value. This
valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of
each disposition category. Based on this evaluation, we adjust the carrying amount of our inventories to lower of cost or market value. We
provide fulfillment-related services in connection with certain of our third parties and Amazon Enterprise Solutions programs. In those arrangements, as well as all other product sales by third parties, the third party maintains ownership of the
related products. Accounts Receivable, Net and Other Current Assets Included in "Accounts receivable, net and other current assets" are prepaid expenses of $17 million and $15 million at December 31,
2006 and 2005, representing advance payments for insurance, licenses, and other miscellaneous expenses. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
We estimate losses on receivables based on known troubled accounts, if any, and historical experience of losses incurred. The allowance
for doubtful accounts receivable was $40 million and $43 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005. Internal-use Software and Website
Development Costs incurred to develop software for internal use are required to be capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful
life of the software in accordance with Statement of Position (SOP) 98-1, Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use. Costs related to design or maintenance of internal-use software are expensed as
incurred. For the years ended 2006, 2005, and 2004, we capitalized $123 million (including $16 million of stock-based compensation), $90 million (including $11 million of stock-based compensation), and $44 million of costs associated with
internal-use software and website development. Amortization of previously capitalized amounts was $86 million, $50 million, and $30 million for 2006, 2005, and 2004. Depreciation of Fixed Assets Fixed assets include assets such as furniture and fixtures, heavy
equipment, technology infrastructure, internal-use software and website development, and our DVD rental library. Depreciation is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets (generally two years or less for assets
such as internal-use software and our DVD rental library, two or three years for our technology infrastructure, five years for furniture and fixtures, and ten years for heavy equipment). Depreciation expense is generally classified within the
corresponding operating expense categories on the consolidated statements of operations, and certain assets, such as our DVD rental library, are amortized as "Cost of sales."
52
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Leases and Asset Retirement Obligations We account for our lease agreements pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 13, Accounting for Leases, which
categorizes leases at their inception as either operating or capital leases depending on certain defined criteria. On certain of our lease agreements, we may receive rent holidays and other incentives. We recognize lease costs on a straight-line
basis without regard to deferred payment terms, such as rent holidays that defer the commencement date of required payments. Additionally, incentives we receive are treated as a reduction of our costs over the term of the agreement. Leasehold
improvements are capitalized at cost and amortized over the lesser of their expected useful life or the life of the lease, without assuming renewal features, if any, are exercised. In accordance with SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, we establish assets and liabilities for the present value of
estimated future costs to return certain of our leased facilities to their original condition. Such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted to the future value of the estimated
restoration costs. Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment, at a minimum, on an annual basis and whenever events and changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Impairment of goodwill is tested at the reporting unit level by
comparing the reporting unit's carrying amount, including goodwill, to the fair value of the reporting unit. The fair values of the reporting units are estimated using discounted projected cash flows. If the carrying amount of the reporting
unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill is considered impaired and a second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. We conduct our annual impairment test as of October 1 of each year, and have determined there to be no
impairment in 2006 or 2005. There were no events or circumstances from the date of our assessment through December 31, 2006 that would impact this assessment. At December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, approximately 60% and 70% of our acquired goodwill was assigned to our International segment, the majority of which relates to our acquisition of Joyo.com in 2004.
Other Assets Included
in "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to deferred issuance charges on our long-term debt, which are amortized over the life of the debt; certain equity investments; marketable securities
restricted for longer than one year; and intangible assets, net of amortization. At December 31, 2006, and 2005, deferred issuance charges were $7 million, and $13 million; and equity investments were $19 million and $8 million. At
December 31, 2006, the cost basis and fair value of marketable securities restricted for longer than one year was $86 million, primarily attributable to collateralization of debt related to our international operations; at December 31,
2005 these amounts were not significant. Other intangibles, net, included within "Other assets," were $21 million and $11
million at December 31, 2006 and 2005. Accumulated amortization was $16 million and $6 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, which excludes the accumulated amortization of fully-amortized intangibles. Amortization expense was $10 million,
$5 million, and $1 million in 2006, 2005, and 2004. Amortization expense of intangible assets over the next five years is as follows: $9 million in 2007; $4 million in 2008; $2 million in 2009; $1 million in 2010; $1 million in 2011. The
weighted-average amortization period is three years based on useful life assumptions between one and ten years. Investments
The initial carrying cost of our investments is the price we paid. Investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting
if the investment gives us the ability to exercise significant influence, but not
53
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
control, over an investee. We classify our investments in equity-method investees on our consolidated balance sheets as "Other assets" and our
share of the investees' earnings or losses as "Remeasurements and other" on our consolidated statements of operations. Losses from equity-method investees were not significant for any period presented. We do not hold over 20% interest
in any of our investees as of December 31, 2006 or 2005. All other equity investments consist of investments for which we do not have
the ability to exercise significant influence. Under the cost method of accounting, investments in private companies are carried at cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines in fair value, distributions of earnings, and additional
investments. For public companies that have readily determinable fair values, we classify our equity investments as available-for-sale and, accordingly, record these investments at their fair values with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax,
included in "Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)," a separate component of stockholders' equity. We generally
invest our excess cash in investment grade short to intermediate term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market mutual funds. Such investments are included in "Cash and cash equivalents," or "Marketable securities" on
the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in "Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)." The weighted average method is used to determine the cost of
Euro-denominated securities sold, and the specific identification method is used to determine the cost of all other securities. We
periodically evaluate whether declines in fair values of our investments below their cost are other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists of several qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the severity and duration of the unrealized loss
as well as our ability and intent to hold the investment until a forecasted recovery occurs. Factors considered include quoted market prices, if available; recent financial results and operating trends; other publicly available information; implied
values from any recent purchase/sales offers of investee securities; or other conditions that may affect the value of our investments. At December 31, 2006, gross unrealized losses on our marketable securities were $5 million and were
determined to be temporary based on our assessment of the qualitative and quantitative factors discussed above. Long-Lived Assets
Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an
asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. For long-lived assets used in operations, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset's carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the
impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for
sale when certain criteria are met, including: management has committed to a plan to sell the asset, the asset is available for sale in its immediate condition, and the sale is probable within one year of the reporting date. Assets held for sale are
reported at the lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell. Assets held for sale were not significant at December 31, 2006 or 2005. Accrued Expenses and Other Included in "Accrued expenses and other" at December 31, 2006 and 2005 were
liabilities of $183 million and $131 million for unredeemed gift certificates. We recognize revenue from a gift certificate when a customer
54
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
redeems it. If a gift certificate is not redeemed, we recognize revenue when it expires or, for a certificate without an expiration date, when the likelihood
of its redemption becomes remote, generally two years from date of issuance. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue is recorded when payments are received in advance of performing our service obligations and is recognized ratably over the service
period. Unearned revenue was $78 million and $48 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005. These amounts are included in "Accrued expenses and other" on our consolidated balance sheets. Income Taxes Income tax expense
includes U.S. and international income taxes. We do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries, totaling $53 million at December 31, 2006, since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely
outside of the U.S. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities and their tax bases and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered. At December 31, 2006, our deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities and valuation allowance, were
$264 million, which includes $130 million relating to net operating loss carryforwards ("NOLs") that were primarily attributed to stock-based compensation. The majority of our NOLs begin to expire in 2019 and thereafter. SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, requires that deferred tax assets be evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation
allowance to the extent we believe a portion will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience and expectations of
future taxable income by taxing jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. In accordance with SFAS No. 109, we allocate our valuation allowance to current and long-term
deferred tax assets on a pro-rata basis. Revenue We recognize revenue from product sales or services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been
rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. Additionally, revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units of accounting if the deliverables in the arrangement meet
the following criteria: the delivered item has value to the customer on a standalone basis; there is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of undelivered items; and delivery of any undelivered item is probable. We evaluate the criteria outlined in Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 99-19, Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal Versus Net as an
Agent, in determining whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of product sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are primarily obligated in a transaction, are subject to inventory risk,
have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue is recorded gross. If we are not primarily obligated and amounts earned are determined using a fixed percentage, a fixed-payment
schedule, or a combination of the two, we generally record the net amounts as commissions earned. Product sales and shipping revenues, net
of promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes to customers. Retail sales to customers are made
55
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
pursuant to a sales contract that provides for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon our delivery to the carrier. Return allowances, which reduce
product revenue, are estimated using historical experience. Amounts received in advance for subscription services, including amounts received for online DVD rentals, Amazon Prime and other membership programs, are deferred and recognized as revenue
over the subscription term. We periodically provide incentive offers to our customers to encourage purchases. Such offers include current
discount offers, such as percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such as offers for future discounts subject to a minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted by our customers, are
treated as a reduction to the purchase price of the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to purchase price based on estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated
using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are presented as a net amount in "Net sales." Commissions and per-unit fees received from third-party sellers and similar amounts earned through Amazon Enterprise Solutions are recognized when the item is sold by the third-party seller and our collectibility is
reasonably assured. We record an allowance for estimated refunds on such commissions using historical experience. Shipping Activities
Outbound shipping charges to customers are included in "Net sales" and were $567 million, $511 million, and $420 million for
2006, 2005, and 2004. Outbound shipping-related costs are included in "Cost of sales" and totaled $884 million, $750 million, and $617 million for 2006, 2005, and 2004. The net cost to us of shipping activities was $317 million, $239
million, and $197 million for 2006, 2005 and 2004. Cost of Sales Cost of sales consists of the purchase price of consumer products sold by us, inbound and outbound shipping charges, packaging supplies, amortization of
our DVD rental library and costs incurred in operating and staffing our fulfillment and customer service centers on behalf of other businesses. Shipping charges to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory, and recognized as
"Cost of sales" upon sale of products to our customers. Payment processing and related transaction costs, including those associated with our third-party seller transactions, are classified in "Fulfillment" on our consolidated
statements of operations. Vendor Agreements We have agreements to receive cash consideration from certain of our vendors, including rebates and cooperative marketing reimbursements. We generally presume amounts received from our vendors are a reduction of the
prices we pay for their products and, therefore, we reflect such amounts as either a reduction of "Cost of sales" on our consolidated statements of operations, or, if the product inventory is still on hand, as a reduction of the carrying
value of inventory. Vendor rebates are typically dependent upon reaching minimum purchase thresholds. We evaluate the likelihood of reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts. When volume rebates can be reasonably
estimated, we record a portion of the rebate as we make progress towards the purchase threshold. When we receive direct reimbursements for
costs incurred by us in advertising the vendor's product or service, the amount we receive is recorded as an offset to "Marketing" on our consolidated statements of operations. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs
represent those costs incurred in operating and staffing our fulfillment and customer service centers, including costs attributable to buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for
shipment; payment processing and related transaction costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain third-party seller transactions; and responding to
56
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
inquiries from customers. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid to third-parties that assist us in fulfillment and customer service operations. Certain
of our fulfillment-related costs that are incurred on behalf of other businesses, such as Target Corporation, are classified as cost of sales rather than fulfillment. Marketing Marketing costs consist primarily of online advertising, including through our Associates
program, sponsored search, portal advertising, e-mail campaigns, and other initiatives. We pay commissions to participants in our Associates program when their customer referrals result in product sales and classify such costs as
"Marketing" on our consolidated statements of operations. We also participate in cooperative advertising arrangements with
certain of our vendors, and other third parties. To the extent co-operative marketing reimbursements decline in future periods, we may incur additional expenses to continue certain promotions or elect to reduce or discontinue them. Marketing expenses also consist of public relations expenditures; payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing, business development,
and selling activities; and to a lesser extent, traditional advertising such as newspaper inserts. Advertising and other promotional
costs, which consist primarily of online advertising, are expensed as incurred, and were $226 million, $168 million, and $141 million in 2006, 2005, and 2004. Prepaid advertising costs were not significant at December 31, 2006 and 2005.
Technology and Content Technology and content expenses consist principally of payroll and related expenses for employees involved in, application development, category expansion, editorial content, buying, merchandising selection, and systems support, as well as
costs associated with the systems and telecommunications infrastructure. Technology and content costs are expensed as incurred, except for
certain costs relating to the development of internal-use software and website development, including software used to upgrade and enhance our websites and processes supporting our business, which are capitalized and amortized over two years.
General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of payroll and related expenses for employees involved in general corporate functions, including accounting, finance, tax, legal, and human relations, among others; costs associated with use by
these functions of facilities and equipment, such as depreciation expense and rent; professional fees and litigation costs; and other general corporate costs. Stock-Based Compensation Prior to January 1, 2005, we accounted for stock-based awards under
the intrinsic value method, which followed the recognition and measurement principles of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related Interpretations. The intrinsic value method
of accounting resulted in compensation expense for restricted stock and restricted stock units at their estimated fair value on date of grant based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock, and for stock options to
the extent option exercise prices were set below market prices on the date of grant. Also, to the extent stock awards were subject to an exchange offer, other modifications, or performance criteria, such awards were subject to variable accounting
treatment. To the extent stock awards were forfeited prior to vesting, the corresponding previously recognized expense was reversed as an offset to operating expenses.
57
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
As of January 1, 2005, we adopted SFAS No. 123(R) using the modified prospective method,
which requires measurement of compensation cost for all stock-based awards at fair value on date of grant and recognition of compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock
units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock, and the fair value of stock options is determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model, which is consistent with our valuation techniques
previously utilized for options in footnote disclosures required under SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, as amended by SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation--Transition and Disclosure.
Such value is recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method under SFAS No. 123(R). The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual
results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including types of awards,
employee class, and historical experience. Actual results, and future changes in estimates, may differ substantially from our current estimates. Additionally, because we implemented SFAS No. 123(R), we no longer have employee stock awards
subject to variable accounting treatment. The adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) resulted in a cumulative benefit from accounting change of
$26 million in 2005, which reflects the net cumulative impact of estimating future forfeitures in the determination of period expense, rather than recording forfeitures when they occur as previously permitted. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), cash retained as a result of tax deductions relating to stock-based compensation was presented in
operating cash flows. SFAS No. 123(R) requires tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions be presented as financing cash inflows. Tax benefits resulting from stock-based compensation deductions in excess of amounts
reported for financial reporting purposes were $102 million, $7 million, and $8 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, with the amounts for 2006 and 2005 treated as financing cash flows. Stock-based compensation for the year ended December 31, 2004 was determined using the intrinsic value method. The following table provides pro
forma financial information as if stock-based compensation had been computed under SFAS No. 123(R) (in millions, except per share data):
Foreign Currency We have the following internationally-focused websites: , , , , , and
. Net sales generated from internationally-focused websites, as well as most of the related expenses directly incurred from those operations, are denominated in the functional currencies of the resident countries. Additionally, the
functional currency of
58
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
our subsidiaries that either operate or support , , , , , and
is the same as the local currency of the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Japan, Canada, and China. Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars at period-end exchange rates, and revenues and
expenses are translated at average rates prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are included in "Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)," a separate component of stockholders' equity, and in the "Effect
of exchange-rate changes on cash and cash equivalents," on our consolidated statements of cash flows. Transaction gains and losses arising from transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity involved are
included in "Other income (expense), net" on our consolidated statements of operations. See "Note 10--Other Income (Expense), Net." Gains and losses arising from intercompany foreign currency transactions are included in net income. Our international operations are financed, in part, by the U.S. parent company. In connection with the remeasurement
of intercompany balances, we recorded a gain of $50 million in 2006, a loss of $47 million 2005, and a gain of $41 million in 2004. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FASB Interpretation
No. (FIN) 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes--An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, which prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a
tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition. FIN 48 will be effective beginning in the
first quarter of 2007. We estimate the cumulative effect of adopting FIN 48 to be immaterial to the consolidated financial statements. Reclassifications Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
Note 2--CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES The following tables summarize, by major security type, our cash and marketable securities (in millions):
59
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
The following table summarizes contractual maturities of our cash equivalent and marketable fixed-income securities as of December 31, 2006 (in
millions):
Gross gains of $18 million, $7 million, and $12 million and gross losses of $16 million, $12
million and $1 million were realized on sales of available-for-sale marketable securities, including Euro-denominated securities, for 2006, 2005, and 2004. We are required to pledge a portion of our cash equivalents or marketable securities as collateral for standby letters of credit that guarantee certain of our contractual obligations, a line of credit, and real estate
lease agreements. See "Note 6--Commitments and Contingencies."
60
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Note 3--FIXED ASSETS Fixed assets, at cost, consisted of the following (in millions):
Depreciation expense on
fixed assets was $200 million, $113 million, and $75 million, which includes amortization of fixed assets acquired under capital lease obligations of $26 million, $4 million and $5 million for 2006, 2005, and 2004. Gross assets remaining under
capital leases were $77 million and $8 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005. Accumulated depreciation associated with capital leases was $28 million and $2 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005. Note 4--LONG-TERM DEBT Our long-term debt is
summarized as follows:
6.875% PEACS In February 2000, we completed an offering of EUR690 million of our 6.875% Premium Adjustable Convertible Securities due February 2010 ("6.875% PEACS"). The 6.875% PEACS are convertible, at the
holder's option, into our common stock at a conversion price of EUR84.883 per share ($112.06, based on the exchange rates as of December 31, 2006). Total common stock issuable, as of December 31, 2006, upon conversion of our
outstanding 6.875% PEACS was 2.8 million shares, which is excluded from our calculation of
61
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
earnings per share as its effect is anti-dilutive. The U.S. Dollar equivalent principal, interest, and conversion price fluctuate based on the Euro/U.S.
Dollar exchange ratio. Interest on the 6.875% PEACS is payable annually in arrears in February of each year. The 6.875% PEACS are unsecured and are subordinated to any existing and future senior indebtedness. The 6.875% PEACS rank equally with our
outstanding 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes. We have the right to redeem the 6.875% PEACS, in whole or in part, by paying the principal, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. No premium payment is required for early redemption. Upon the occurrence of a "fundamental change" prior to the maturity of the 6.875% PEACS, each holder thereof has the right to require us to
redeem all or any part of such holder's 6.875% PEACS at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes being redeemed, together with accrued interest. As defined in the indenture, a "fundamental change" is the occurrence
of certain types of transactions in which our stockholders do not receive publicly-traded securities. The indenture governing the 6.875%
PEACS contains certain affirmative covenants for us, including making principal and interest payments when due, maintaining our corporate existence and properties, and paying taxes and other claims in a timely manner. We were in compliance with
these covenants through December 31, 2006. In 2006, we redeemed an aggregate principal amount of EUR250 million ($300 million
based on the Euro to U.S. Dollar exchange rate on the date of redemption) of our outstanding 6.875% PEACS. We recorded a charge classified in "Remeasurements and other," of approximately $6 million related to the redemption,
consisting of $3 million in unamortized deferred issuance charges and $3 million relating to unrealized losses on our terminated currency swap that previously hedged a portion of our 6.875% PEACS. In addition, our Board of Directors authorized a new
debt repurchase program, replacing our previous debt repurchase authorization in its entirety, pursuant to which we may from time to time repurchase (through open market repurchases or private transactions), redeem, or otherwise retire up to an
aggregate of $500 million of our outstanding 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes and 6.875% PEACS In 2005, we redeemed an aggregate
principal amount of EUR200 million ($265 million based on the Euro to U.S. Dollar exchange rate on the date of redemption) of our outstanding 6.875% PEACS. We recorded a charge classified in "Remeasurements and other," of
approximately $4 million related to the redemption, consisting of $2 million in unamortized deferred issuance charges and $2 million relating to unrealized losses on our terminated currency swap that previously hedged a portion of our 6.875% PEACS.
Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value of the 6.875% PEACS was $320 million and $586 million (outstanding principal of
EUR240 million and EUR490 million) as of December 31, 2006 and 2005. 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes
On February 3, 1999, we completed an offering of $1.25 billion of 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes due February 2009. The
4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes are convertible into our common stock at the holders' option at a conversion price of $78.0275 per share. Interest on the 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears in February
and August of each year. The 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes are unsecured and are subordinated to any existing and future senior indebtedness as defined in the indenture governing the 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes. The 4.75% Convertible
Subordinated Notes rank equally with our outstanding 6.875% PEACS. We have the right to redeem the 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes, in whole or in part, by paying the principal plus a redemption premium, plus any accrued and unpaid interest.
The redemption premium was 1.425% of the principal at December 31, 2006, and decreased to 0.950% on February 1, 2007 and will decrease by an additional 47.5 basis points annually until maturity.
62
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Upon the occurrence of a "fundamental change" prior to the maturity of the 4.75%
Convertible Subordinated Notes, each holder thereof has the right to require us to redeem all or any part of such holder's 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes being redeemed,
together with accrued interest. As defined in the indenture, a "fundamental change" is the occurrence of certain types of transactions in which our stockholders do not receive publicly-traded securities. The indenture governing the 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes contains certain affirmative covenants for us, including making principal and interest
payments when due, maintaining our corporate existence and properties, and paying taxes and other claims in a timely manner. We were in compliance with these covenants through December 31, 2006. In 2004, we redeemed an aggregate principal amount of $150 million of our outstanding 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes. As provided in the underlying
indenture, the redemption price of $154 million represented a $4 million (2.375%) premium over the face amount of the redeemed notes. We recorded a charge in 2004 classified in "Remeasurements and other," of $6 million related to this
redemption, consisting of a premium of $4 million and unamortized deferred issuance costs of $2 million. Based upon quoted market prices,
the fair value of our 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 was $883 million and $868 million. Note 5--OTHER
LONG-TERM LIABILITIES Our other long-term liabilities are summarized as follows:
Tax Contingencies As of December 31, 2006, the Company has provided tax reserves of approximately $75 million for U.S. and foreign income taxes, which primarily relate
to restructuring of certain foreign operations and intercompany pricing between our subsidiaries. See "Note 12--Income Taxes" for discussion of tax contingencies. Capital Leases Certain of our equipment fixed assets, primarily related to technology, have been acquired under capital leases. Long-term capital lease obligations were as follows:
63
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
The remainder of our other long-term liabilities primarily include asset retirement obligations and
deferred rental liabilities. NOTE 6--COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Commitments We lease office and
fulfillment center facilities and fixed assets under non-cancelable operating and capital leases. Rental expense under operating lease agreements was $132 million, $84 million, and $55 million for 2006, 2005, and 2004. The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders for inventory purchases that support normal operations, as of
December 31, 2006:
Pledged Securities We are required
to support certain letters of credit, debt, and real estate leases by pledging or otherwise restricting cash and marketable securities. We classify marketable securities, where a use restriction exists for a period of twelve months or longer, as
non-current "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets. The balance of pledged securities at December 31, 2006 consisted of $50 million in "Marketable securities" and $86 million in "Other assets". The
amount required to be pledged for real estate lease agreements changes over the life of our leases, with fluctuations in our market capitalization (common shares outstanding multiplied by the closing price of our common stock) and based on our
credit-rating. Information about collateral required to be pledged under these agreements is as follows:
64
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Legal
Proceedings The Company is involved from time to time in claims, proceedings and litigation, including the following: In October 2002, Gary Gerlinger, individually and on behalf of all other similarly situated consumers in the United States who, during the period from
August 1, 2001 to the present, purchased books online from either Amazon.com or Borders.com, instituted an action against us and Borders in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The complaint alleges that the
agreement pursuant to which an affiliate of Amazon.com operates Borders.com as a co-branded site violates federal anti-trust laws, California statutory law, and the common law of unjust enrichment. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages,
including treble damages or statutory damages where applicable, attorneys' fees, costs, and disbursements, disgorgement of all sums obtained by allegedly wrongful acts, interest, and declaratory relief. In November 2005, the Court dismissed all
of the plaintiff's claims with prejudice. The plaintiff is appealing that dismissal. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing in this complaint, and we will continue to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. Beginning in March 2003, we were served with complaints filed in several different states, including Illinois, by a private litigant, Beeler,
Schad & Diamond, P.C., purportedly on behalf of the state governments under various state False Claims Acts. The complaints allege that we (along with other companies with which we have commercial agreements) wrongfully failed to collect
and remit sales and use taxes for sales of personal property to customers in those states and knowingly created records and statements falsely stating we were not required to collect or remit such taxes. In December 2006, we learned that one
additional complaint was filed in the state of Illinois by a different private litigant, Matthew T. Hurst, alleging similar violations of the Illinois state law. All of the complaints seek injunctive relief, unpaid taxes, interest, attorneys'
fees, civil penalties of up to $10,000 per violation, and treble or punitive damages under the various state False Claims Acts. It is possible that we have been or will be named in similar cases in other states as well. We dispute the allegations of
wrongdoing in these complaints and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in these matters. In May 2004, Toysrus.com LLC filed a complaint
against us for breach of contract in the Superior Court of New Jersey. The complaint alleged that we breached our commercial agreement with Toysrus.com LLC by selling, and by permitting other third parties to sell, products that Toysrus.com LLC
alleged it has an exclusive right to sell on our website. We disputed the allegations in the complaint and brought counterclaims alleging breach of contract and seeking damages and declaratory relief. The trial of both parties' claims concluded
in November 2005. In March 2006, the Court entered a judgment in favor of Toysrus.com LLC, terminating the contract but declining to award damages to either party. We are pursuing an appeal of the lower court's rulings terminating the contract,
declining to award us damages, and denying our motion to compel Toysrus.com to pay certain fees incurred during the wind-down period. In
December 2005, Registrar Systems LLC filed a complaint against us and Target Corporation for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Colorado. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including the
method by which Amazon.com enables customers to use Amazon.com account information on websites that Amazon.com operates for third parties, such as Target.com, infringes two patents obtained by Registrar Systems purporting to cover methods and
apparatuses for a "World Wide Web Registration Information Processing System" (U.S. Patent Nos. 5,790,785 and 6,823,327) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages in an amount no less than a reasonable royalty, prejudgment
interest, costs, and attorneys'
65
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing in this complaint and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In September 2006, the Court
entered an order staying the lawsuit pending the outcome of the Patent and Trademark Office's re-examination of the patents in suit. In August 2006, Cordance Corporation filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including our 1-Click ordering
system, infringes a patent obtained by Cordance purporting to cover an "Object-Based Online Transaction Infrastructure" (U.S. Patent No. 6,757,710) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages in an amount no less than a reasonable
royalty, treble damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys' fees. In response, we asserted a declaratory judgment counterclaim in the same action alleging that a service that Cordance has advertised its
intent to launch infringes a patent owned by us entitled "Networked Personal Contact Manager" (U.S. Patent No. 6,269,369). We dispute Cordance's allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter.
In October 2006, IBM filed two patent infringement lawsuits against us in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Texas. The complaints allege that various aspects of our website technology infringe five patents obtained by IBM purporting to cover a "System for Ordering Items Using an Electronic Catalog" (U.S. Patent No. 5,319,542), a
"Method for Storing Data in an Interactive Computer Network" (U.S. Patent No. 5,442,771), a "System for Adjusting Hypertext Links with Weighed User Goals and Activities" (U.S. Patent No. 5,446,891), a "Method for
Presenting Applications in an Interactive Service" (U.S. Patent No. 5,796,967), and a "Method of Presenting Advertising in an Interactive Service" (U.S. Patent No. 7,072,849). The complaints seek injunctive relief, monetary
damages in an amount no less than a reasonable royalty, treble damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment interest, and attorneys' fees. In response, we asserted counterclaims in both actions alleging that IBM's WebSphere
service infringes several of our patents. We dispute IBM's allegations of wrongdoing in these lawsuits and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. Depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could materially affect our business, results of operations, financial position, or cash flows in a particular period.
Inventory Suppliers During 2006, no vendor accounted for 10% or more of our inventory purchases. We do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with most of our vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms, or the
extension of credit limits. Note 7--STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY Preferred Stock We have authorized 500 million shares of $0.01 par value Preferred Stock. No
preferred stock was outstanding for any period presented. Stock Repurchase Activity In August 2006, our Board of Directors authorized a 24-month program to repurchase up to an aggregate of $500 million of our common stock. We repurchased
8.2 million shares of our common stock for $252 million in 2006 under this program.
66
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Stock Award Plans Employees vest in restricted stock unit awards and stock options over the corresponding service term, generally between two and five years. Outstanding
stock options generally have a term of 10 years from the date of grant. Stock Award Activity We granted stock awards, which since October 2002 have consisted primarily of restricted stock units, representing 9 million, 6 million, and
3 million shares of common stock during 2006, 2005, and 2004 with a per share weighted average fair value of $36.48, $36.50, and $43.77. Common shares underlying outstanding stock awards were as follows:
Common shares outstanding (which includes restricted stock), plus shares underlying outstanding
stock options and restricted stock units totaled 436 million, 438 million, and 434 million at December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. These totals include all stock-based awards outstanding, without regard for estimated forfeitures,
consisting of vested and unvested awards and in-the-money and out-of-the-money stock options. Common shares outstanding decreased by 4 million shares in 2006, due to repurchases of common stock, offset by exercises of stock options, vesting of
restricted stock units, and matching contributions under our 401(k) savings plan. Common shares outstanding increased by 6 million shares in 2005, due to exercises of stock options, vesting of restricted stock units, and matching contributions
under our 401(k) savings plan. The following summarizes our restricted stock unit activity (in millions):
67
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units at December 31, 2006 is as follows (in
millions):
The following table summarizes our stock option activity:
The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at December 31,
2006:
The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options outstanding at 2006 and 2005 was $292 million and
$554 million, of which $204 million and $294 million relates to vested awards. Intrinsic value for stock options is calculated based on the difference between the exercise price of the underlying awards and the quoted price of our common stock as of
the reporting date. As matching contributions under our 401(k) savings plan, we granted 0.15 million and 0.09 million shares of
common stock for years ended 2006 and 2005. Shares granted as matching contributions under our 401(k) plan and shares of restricted stock are included in outstanding common stock when issued.
68
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
As of December 31, 2006, there was $217 million of net unrecognized compensation cost related to
unvested stock-based compensation arrangements. This compensation is recognized on an accelerated basis resulting in approximately half of the compensation expected to be expensed in the next twelve months, and a weighted average recognition period
of 1.3 years. During 2006 and 2005, the fair value of restricted stock units and restricted stock awards vested was $68 million and
$50 million, and the intrinsic value of options exercised was $105 million and $180 million. Common Stock Available for Future Issuance
At December 31, 2006, common stock available for future issuance is as follows (in millions):
Note 8--OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) The changes in the components of other comprehensive income (loss) were as follows:
Accumulated balances within other comprehensive income (loss) were as follows:
69
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Note 9--OTHER OPERATING EXPENSE (INCOME) Other operating expense was $10 million in 2006, primarily attributable to amortization of other intangibles. Other operating expense was $47 million in
2005, primarily attributable to our settlement of a patent lawsuit for $40 million, as well as amortization of other intangibles of $5 million. Other operating income was $8 million for 2004, which includes restructuring-related credits, net, of $9
million, and amortization of other intangibles of $1 million. During 2004, we determined that certain of the office space previously
vacated as part of our 2001 restructuring was necessary for our future needs. We reduced our restructuring-related liability resulting in a gain of $13 million for 2004. Lease payments for this office space are expensed over the lease period and
classified to the corresponding operating expense categories on the consolidated statements of operations. In 2004, we streamlined our
organizational structure in France to reduce our operating costs. This reduction resulted in severance costs of $4 million classified in "Other operating expense (income)" on our consolidated statements of operations. Note 10--OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET Other
income (expense), net, was $(4) million, $2 million, and $(5) million, in 2006, 2005 and 2004, and consisted primarily of gains and losses on sales of marketable securities, foreign-currency transaction gains and losses, and other miscellaneous
losses. Foreign-currency transaction gains and losses primarily relate to the interest payable on our 6.875% PEACS, as well as
foreign-currency gains and losses on cross-currency investments. Since interest payments on our 6.875% PEACS are settled in Euros, the balance of interest payable is subject to gains or losses resulting from changes in exchange rates between the
U.S. Dollar and Euro between reporting dates and payment. Note 11--REMEASUREMENTS AND OTHER Remeasurements and other consisted of the following:
70
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Note 12--INCOME TAXES Cash taxes paid were $15 million, $12 million, and $4 million for 2006, 2005, and 2004. The items
accounting for differences between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate and the provision (benefit) recorded for income taxes are as follows:
The effective tax rate in 2006 is higher than the 35% statutory rate resulting from steps we
initiated to establish our European headquarters in Luxembourg. Associated with the establishment of our European headquarters, we transferred certain of our operating assets in 2005 and 2006 from the U.S. to international locations. These transfers
resulted in taxable income and exposure to additional taxable income assertions by taxing jurisdictions. Included in the 2005 provision
and reducing the impact of the international restructure is a tax benefit of $90 million, resulting from certain of our deferred tax assets becoming more likely than not realizable. This tax benefit represented $0.22 and $0.21 of basic and diluted
earnings per share. We recorded a tax benefit of $244 million in 2004, representing $0.60 and $0.57 of basic and diluted earnings per
share, and a credit to stockholders' equity of $106 million as we determined that certain of our deferred tax assets were more likely than not realizable. We are subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary
course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are subject to audit in various jurisdictions, and certain jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against us. We
establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties based on estimates of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. These reserves are established when we believe that certain positions might be challenged despite our belief that
our tax return positions are fully supportable We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the outcome of tax audits. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves
that are considered appropriate. The components of the provision (benefit) for income taxes, net were as follows:
71
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
U.S. and international components of income before income taxes were as follows:
The significant components of deferred income tax expense (benefit) attributable to income from
operations for 2006, 2005, and 2004 were as follows:
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities were as follows:
We have not fully utilized net operating loss carry forwards which were generated in the years 1996 through 2003, so that the statute of limitations for
these years remains open for purposes of adjusting the amounts of the losses carried forward from those years.
72
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Note 13--SEGMENT INFORMATION We have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. We present our segment information along the same lines that our chief executive reviews our operating results in
assessing performance and allocating resources. We allocate to segment results the operating expenses "Fulfillment,"
"Marketing," "Technology and content," and "General and administrative," but exclude from our allocations the portions of these expense lines attributable to stock-based compensation. Additionally, we do not allocate
the line item "Other operating expense (income)" to our segment operating results. A significant majority of our costs for "Technology and content" are incurred in the United States and most of these costs are allocated to our
North America segment. There are no internal revenue transactions between our reporting segments. North America The North America segment consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from third-party sellers) and subscriptions through
North America-focused websites such as , , , and from our mail-order tool catalog phone orders; from our Amazon Prime membership program; and from non-retail activities such as
North America-focused Amazon Enterprise Solutions, marketing, and promotional agreements. This segment includes export sales from and . International The International
segment consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from third-party sellers) and subscriptions through internationally focused websites such as , , ,
, and since September 2004, from our DVD rental service and from non-retail activities such as internationally focused marketing and promotional agreements. This segment includes export sales from these
internationally based sites (including export sales from these sites to customers in the U.S. and Canada), but excludes export sales from and .
73
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Information on reportable segments and reconciliation to consolidated net income was as follows:
Net sales shipped to customers outside of the U.S. represented approximately half of net sales for
2006, 2005, and 2004. Net sales from , , and each represented 10% or more of consolidated net sales in 2006, 2005 and 2004. Net fixed assets held in locations outside the U.S. were
$108 million, $68 million, and $57 million at December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004. Total assets, by segment, reconciled to consolidated
amounts were (in millions):
74
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Depreciation expense, by segment, was as follows (in millions):
Note 14--FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The carrying amount and estimated fair values of our financial instruments were as follows (in millions):
Note 15--QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) The
following tables contain selected unaudited statement of operations information for each quarter of 2006, 2005, and 2004. The following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the information for
the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Our business is affected by seasonality, which historically has resulted in higher sales volume during our fourth quarter,
which ends December 31. Unaudited quarterly results were as follows (in millions, except per share data):
75
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
76
Table of Contents
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants On Accounting and Financial Disclosure None.
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and
Procedures We carried out an evaluation required by the 1934 Act, under the supervision and with the participation of our principal
executive officer and principal financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the 1934 Act, as of December 31, 2006. Based on this evaluation, our
principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that, as of December 31, 2006, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in the
reports that we file or submit under the 1934 Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and to provide reasonable assurance that such information is accumulated and
communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the 1934
Act. Management has assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 based on criteria established in Internal Control--Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. As a result of this assessment, management concluded that, as of December 31, 2006, our internal control over financial reporting was effective in providing reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Ernst & Young LLP has issued an attestation report on management's
assessment of internal control over financial reporting, a copy of which is included in this annual report on Form 10-K. Changes in
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter
ended December 31, 2006 that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Limitations on Controls Management does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or
our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all error and fraud. Any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, is based upon certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that
its objectives will be met. Further, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected.
77
Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Stockholders Amazon.com, Inc. We have audited management's assessment, included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, that
Amazon.com, Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on criteria established in Internal Control--Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (the COSO criteria). Amazon.com, Inc.'s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on management's assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, evaluating management's assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit
provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could
have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies
or procedures may deteriorate. In our opinion, management's assessment that Amazon.com, Inc. maintained effective internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the COSO criteria. Also, in our opinion, Amazon.com, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on the COSO criteria. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Amazon.com, Inc. as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2006 of Amazon.com, Inc. and our report dated February 15, 2007 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP Seattle, Washington February 15, 2007
78
Table of Contents
Item 9B. Other Information None. PART III
Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Information regarding our Executive Officers required by Item 10 of Part III is set forth in Item 1 of Part I "Business--Executive Officers and Directors." Information required by Item 10 of Part III regarding
our Directors and any material changes to the process by which security holders may recommend nominees to the Board of Directors is included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and is incorporated herein by
reference. Information relating to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and to compliance with Section 16(a) of the 1934 Act is set forth in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein
by reference. To the extent permissible under Nasdaq rules, we intend to disclose amendments to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, as well as waivers of the provisions thereof, on our investor relations website under the heading
"Corporate Governance" at website.
Item 11. Executive Compensation Information required by Item 11
of Part III is included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters Information required by Item 12 of Part III is included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is
incorporated herein by reference.
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Information
required by Item 13 of Part III is included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services Information required
by Item 14 of Part III is included in our Proxy Statement relating our 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. PART IV
Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules (a) List of
Documents Filed as a Part of This Report: (1) Index to Consolidated Financial Statements: Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years ended December 31, 2006 Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the three years ended December 31, 2006 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for each of the three years ended December 31, 2006 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
79
Table of Contents
(2) Index to Financial Statement Schedules: Schedule II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts All other schedules have been omitted because the required information is included in the consolidated financial statements or the notes
thereto, or is not applicable or required. (3) Index to Exhibits
80
Table of Contents
81
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, as of February 15, 2007.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated as of February 15, 2007.
82
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS Accounts receivable and other current assets--Reserves
Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX
Table of Contents