.
3
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(in thousands, except per share data)
(unaudited)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
4
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(in thousands)
(unaudited)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
5
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(unaudited)
Note 1 -- Accounting Policies
Unaudited Interim Financial Information
We have prepared the accompanying consolidated financial statements
pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission
(the "SEC") for interim financial reporting. As used herein, "Amazon.com," the
"Company," "we," "our" and similar terms include Amazon.com, Inc. and its
wholly-owned subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. These
consolidated financial statements are unaudited and, in our opinion, include
all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments and accruals
necessary for a fair presentation of the consolidated balance sheets, operating
results, and cash flows for the periods presented. Operating results for the
three and six months ended June 30, 2003 are not necessarily indicative of the
results that may be expected for the year ending December 31, 2003 due to
seasonal and other factors. Certain information and footnote disclosures
normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") have
been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. These
consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the
audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in
our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002. Certain
prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period
presentation.
Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Amazon.com
and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions
have been eliminated.
Use of Estimates
The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities,
revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and
liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.
Estimates are used for, but not limited to, inventory valuation, depreciable
lives, sales returns, receivables valuation, restructuring-related liabilities,
incentive discount offers, valuation of investments, taxes, and contingencies.
Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.
Loss per Share
The number of shares used to calculate loss per share for the three and
six months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002 was reduced by 1 million shares in each
period. Such reductions reflect the weighted average number of outstanding
shares subject to repurchase or forfeiture for the corresponding periods. The
effect of outstanding stock awards is antidilutive and, accordingly, is
excluded from the calculation of diluted loss per share.
Accounting Changes -- Inventory Costing
Effective January 1, 2002, we prospectively changed our inventory costing
method to the first-in first-out ("FIFO") method of accounting. We determined
this change to be preferable under GAAP since, among other reasons, it facilitates our record keeping
process, significantly improves our ability to provide cost-efficient
fulfillment services to third-party companies as part of our services offering
and results in increased consistency with others in our industry. We received a
letter of preferability for this change in inventory costing from our
independent auditors.
6
Table of Contents
Vendor Agreements
We have agreements to receive cash consideration from certain of our
vendors, including rebates and cooperative marketing reimbursements. We
generally presume amounts received from our vendors are a reduction of the
prices we pay for their products, and therefore, we reflect such amounts as
either a reduction of "Cost of sales" on our consolidated statements of
operations, or, if the product inventory is still on hand at the reporting
date, it is reflected as a reduction of "Inventories" on our consolidated
balance sheets. When we receive direct reimbursements for costs incurred by us
in selling the vendor's product or service, the amount we receive is recorded
as an offset to "Marketing" on our statements of operations.
Vendor rebates are typically dependent upon reaching minimum purchase
thresholds. We evaluate the likelihood of reaching purchase thresholds using
past experience and current year forecasts. When rebates can be reasonably
estimated, we record a portion of the rebate as we make progress towards the
purchase threshold. Our accounting treatment is consistent with the conclusions
reached in Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") 02-16,
Accounting by a Customer
(Including a Reseller) for Certain Consideration Received from a Vendor.
Goodwill and Other Intangibles
Statements
of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 142,
Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets, prescribes a two-phase process for impairment
testing of goodwill, which is performed once annually, absent indicators of
impairment. The first phase screens for impairment, while the second phase (if
necessary) measures the impairment. We have elected to perform our annual
analysis during the fourth calendar quarter of each year. No indicators of
impairment were identified during the first half of 2003.
Other intangibles consist of the following (in thousands):
The net carrying amount of intangible assets at June 30, 2003 is scheduled
to be fully amortized by the end of 2004. Amortization expense for remaining
intangible assets at June 30, 2003 is estimated to be $1 million for the
remainder of 2003 and less than $1 million in 2004.
Revenue
Product
sales, net of promotional discounts, rebates, and return
allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes to
customers. Retail items sold to customers are made pursuant to a sales contract
that provides for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon our delivery to
the carrier, which is commonly referred to as "F.O.B. Shipping Point." Return
allowances, which reduce product revenue by the Company's best estimate of
expected product returns, are estimated using historical experience.
Amounts billed to customers for outbound shipping charges are included in
"Net sales" and were $80 million and $81 million for the three months ended June
30, 2003 and 2002, and $158 million and $171 million for the six months ended
June 30, 2003 and 2002.
7
Table of Contents
Stock-Based Compensation
We generally have three categories of stock-based awards: restricted stock
units, restricted stock, and stock options. We account for stock-based awards
under the intrinsic value method, which follows the recognition and measurement
principles of Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25, Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees, and related Interpretations. The intrinsic value
method of accounting results in compensation expense to the extent option
exercise prices are set below market prices on the date of grant. Also, to the
extent stock awards have been subject to an exchange offer, other
modifications, or performance criteria, such awards are subject to variable
accounting treatment. Variable accounting treatment results in expense or
contra-expense recognition using the cumulative expense method, calculated
based on quoted prices of our common stock and vesting schedules of underlying
awards.
We grant restricted stock units as our primary form of stock-based
compensation; however, in certain of our foreign jurisdictions, we continue to
grant stock options. Stock options granted after December 31, 2002 are subject
to variable accounting treatment. Unless subject to variable accounting
treatment, restricted stock units and restricted stock are measured at fair
value on the date of grant based on the number of shares granted and the quoted
price of our common stock. Such value is recognized as an expense over the
corresponding service period. To the extent restricted stock or restricted stock units are forfeited prior to vesting, the corresponding
previously recognized expense is reversed as an offset to "Stock-based
compensation."
We record the employer portion of payroll tax expense resulting from
exercises of stock-based awards in "Fulfillment," "Marketing," "Technology and
content," and "General and administrative" on our consolidated statements of
operations and do not include such expenses in "Stock-based compensation."
Stock-based compensation includes matching contributions under our 401(k)
program.
Stock-based compensation consisted of the following (in thousands):
We granted stock awards representing 1.6 million and 0.8 million shares of
common stock during the three months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, and 1.8
million and 1.7 million shares of common stock during the six months ended June
30, 2003 and 2002. These awards generally vest over service periods of between
three and six years. Common shares outstanding, which includes restricted
stock, plus shares underlying stock options and restricted stock units totaled
433 million at June 30, 2003, an increase of 1% compared with June 30, 2002.
8
Table of Contents
The following table summarizes relevant information as if the fair value
recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based
Compensation, had been applied to all stock-based awards (in thousands, except
per share data):
The weighted average fair value of stock awards (including restricted
stock units) per share was $26.46 and $16.67 for awards granted during the
three months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, and $25.78 and $15.34 for awards
granted during the six months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002.
Outstanding stock awards were as follows (in thousands):
9
Table of Contents
Note 2 -- Cash, Cash
Equivalents, and Marketable Securities
Our cash and marketable securities are summarized as follows (at fair
value, in thousands):
10
Table of Contents
Note 4 -- Commitments and Contingencies
Commitments
We currently lease office and fulfillment center facilities and fixed
assets under non-cancelable operating and capital leases. Rental expense under
operating lease agreements was $13 million and $16 million for the three months
ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, and $26 million and $31 million for the six
months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002.
The following are our contractual commitments associated with our
indebtedness, lease obligations, marketing agreements, and operational
restructuring (in thousands):
See "Note 6 - Restructuring-Related and Other" for additional information
on restructuring-related lease obligations.
11
Table of Contents
Pledged Securities
We have pledged a portion of our marketable securities as collateral for
stand-by letters of credit that guarantee certain of our contractual
obligations and for real estate lease agreements. The
change in the total amount of collateral pledged under these agreements is as
follows (in thousands):
Legal Proceedings
On April 12, 2001, we received a request from the SEC staff for the
voluntary production of documents and information concerning, among other
things, previously reported sales of our common stock by our Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer, Jeffrey P. Bezos, on February 2 and 5, 2001. We have cooperated
fully with the SEC staff's inquiry.
A number of purported class action complaints were filed by holders of our equity and debt securities against us, our directors, and certain of our
senior officers during 2001, in the United States District Court for the
Western District of Washington, alleging violations of the Securities Act of
1933 (the "1933 Act") and/or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "1934
Act"). On October 5, 2001, plaintiffs in the 1934 Act cases filed a
consolidated amended complaint alleging that we, together with certain of our
officers and directors and certain third parties, made false or misleading
statements during the period from October 29, 1998 through July 23, 2001
concerning our business, financial condition and results, inventories, future
prospects, and strategic alliance transactions. The 1933 Act complaint alleges
that the defendants made false or misleading statements in connection with our
February 2000 offering of the 6.875% PEACS. The complaints seek recissionary
and/or compensatory damages and injunctive relief against all defendants. We
dispute the allegations of wrongdoing in these complaints and intend to
vigorously defend ourselves in these matters.
On October 29, 2002, Gary Gerlinger, individually and on behalf of all
other similarly situated consumers in the United States who, during the period
from August 1, 2001 to the present, purchased books online from either
Amazon.com or Borders.com, instituted an action against us and Borders in the
United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The
complaint alleges that the agreement pursuant to which an affiliate of
Amazon.com operates Borders.com as a co-branded site violates federal
anti-trust laws, California statutory law, and the common law of unjust
enrichment. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages, including treble
damages or statutory damages where applicable, attorneys' fees, costs, and
disbursements, disgorgement of all sums obtained by allegedly wrongful acts,
interest, and declaratory relief. We dispute the plaintiff's allegations of
wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter.
In March 2003, we were served with a complaint filed in the
Chancery Court of Davidson County, Tennessee, by a private litigant purportedly
on behalf of the State of Tennessee under the Tennessee False Claims Act. The
complaint alleges that we (along with other companies with which we have
commercial agreements) wrongfully failed to collect and remit sales and use
taxes for sales of personal property to customers in Tennessee and knowingly
created records and statements falsely stating we were not required to collect
or remit such taxes. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, unpaid taxes,
interest, attorneys' fees, civil penalties of up to $10,000 per violation, and
treble damages under Tennessee's False Claims Act. In July 2003,
we received a similar complaint filed in Cook County District Court,
Nevada, by the same private litigant alleging similar claims with
respect to sales and use taxes for sales of personal property to
customers in Nevada. We are aware
that the private litigant in this case has filed similar actions against other
retailers in other states, and it is possible that we have been or will be
named in similar cases in other states as well. We do not believe that we are
liable under existing laws and regulations for any failure to collect sales or
other taxes relating to Internet sales and intend to vigorously defend
ourselves in these matters.
On
July 17, 2003, Pinpoint Inc. filed a complaint for patent
infringement in the United States District Court for the Northern
District of Illinois against us and several other companies with
which we have commercial agreements. The complaint alleges that our
personalization technology infringes several patents obtained by
Pinpoint and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages in an amount
no less than a reasonable royalty, prejudgment interest, and attorneys' fees against all defendants.
We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing in this complaint and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter.
Depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution of some
or all of these matters could materially affect our business, future results of
operations, financial position, or cash flows in a particular period.
12
Table of Contents
Note 5 -- Comprehensive Loss
Comprehensive loss was as follows (in thousands):
Activity in other comprehensive income relating to the Euro Currency Swap
for the three and six months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002 was as follows:
At June 30, 2003, the balance of the cumulative losses, included in
"Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)," on our consolidated balance
sheets was $14 million. In accordance with SFAS No. 133, resulting from the
termination of our Euro Currency Swap, future reclassifications of cumulative
losses on the Euro Currency Swap from "Accumulated other comprehensive income" to "Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and other" will be recorded using the effective interest
method over the remaining life of the 6.875% PEACS.
Note 6 -- Restructuring-Related and Other
As previously disclosed, in the first quarter of 2001 we announced and
began implementation of our operational restructuring plan. The restructuring
is complete; however, we may adjust our restructuring-related estimates in the
future, if necessary. Restructuring-related and other expenses were $10 million
for the six months ended June 30, 2002 associated with the
revisions of our January 2001 restructuring estimates for ongoing lease
obligations for our facilities in Seattle, Washington and McDonough, Georgia.
No similar expenses were incurred during the three months or six months ended
June 30, 2003.
Restructuring-related charges were as follows (in thousands):
13
Table of Contents
At June 30, 2003, the accrued liability associated with
restructuring-related and other charges was $37 million and consisted of the
following (in thousands):
Restructuring-related lease obligations are as follows (in thousands):
Note 7 -- Other Income (Expense), Net
Other
income (expense), net consisted of the following (in thousands):
14
Table of Contents
Note 8 -- Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and Other
Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and other consisted of the following (in
thousands):
At June 30, 2003, the remaining cumulative unrealized loss
associated with our Euro Currency Swap, recorded to "Accumulated
other comprehensive income," was $14 million. During
the second quarter of 2003, we terminated our Euro Currency Swap and,
although neither party made cash payments to terminate, we recorded a
non-cash loss of $6 million to "Remeasurement of 6.875%
PEACS and other" representing the remaining basis in our swap
asset. In accordance with SFAS No. 133, Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, reclassifications
of this accumulated loss will be recorded to "Remeasurement of
6.875% PEACS and other" over the life of the 6.875% PEACS. If we
redeem or otherwise restructure our 6.875% PEACS prior to maturity in
2010, any remaining cumulative unrealized loss associated with the
Euro Currency Swap will be recorded as a charge to
"Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and other."
Note 9 -- Employee Benefit Plan
We have a 401(k) savings plan covering substantially all of our employees,
and eligible employees may contribute through payroll deductions. Beginning in
April 2003, we began matching a portion of employee contributions using our
common stock. During the three months ended June 30, 2003, we issued 15,000
shares of common stock in connection with matching contributions for the 401(k)
savings plan.
Note 10 -- Segment Information
We present segment information along the same lines that our chief
operating decision maker reviews our operating results in assessing performance
and allocating resources. During the first quarter of 2003, our chief operating
decision maker began reviewing operating results along two lines: North America
and International. This change was prompted by the increasing prominence and
overall importance of third-party sellers on our Websites as well as how both
capital and human resources are allocated for technology and fulfillment
operations. We have aligned our organization with the primary management
objective of increasing overall unit sales volume, regardless of whether a
third party or the Company is the seller.
We measure operating results of our segments using an internal performance
measure of direct segment operating expenses that excludes stock-based
compensation, amortization of other intangibles, and
restructuring-related and other charges, each of which are not allocated to
segment results. All other centrally-incurred operating costs are fully
allocated to segment results. There are no internal revenue transactions
between our reporting segments.
North America
The North America segment consists of amounts earned from retail sales of
consumer products through and (including from
third-party sellers), from North America focused Syndicated Stores and
mail-order catalogs, and from non-retail activities such as North America
focused Merchant.com, marketing, and promotional agreements.
International
The International segment consists of amounts earned from retail sales of
consumer products through , , , and
(including from third-party sellers), from internationally
focused Syndicated Stores and from non-retail activities such as
internationally focused marketing and promotional agreements. This segment
includes export sales from , , , and
(including export sales from these sites to customers in the
U.S. and Canada), but excludes export sales from and
.
15
Table of Contents
Information on reportable segments and reconciliation to consolidated net
loss is as follows (in thousands):
Three Months Ended June 30, 2003:
Three Months Ended June 30, 2002:
Six Months Ended June 30, 2003:
16
Table of Contents
Six Months Ended June 30, 2002:
17
Table of Contents
Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Forward-Looking Statements
This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements
within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All
statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements
regarding industry prospects or future results of operations or financial
position, made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are forward-looking. We
use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar
expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements
reflect management's current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual
results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among
others, the rate of growth of the economy in general and of the Internet and
online commerce, customer spending patterns, world events, the amount that we
invest in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the
mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products
as compared with services, competition, risks of inventory management, the
degree to which we enter into commercial agreements and strategic transactions
and maintain and develop commercial relationships, foreign exchange risks,
seasonality, international growth and expansion, and risks of fulfillment
throughput and productivity. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other
risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ
significantly from management's expectations, are described in greater detail
in "Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results," which, along with the
following discussion, describes some, but not all, of the factors that could
cause actual results to differ significantly from management's expectations.
Results of Operations
Critical Accounting Judgments
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities,
revenues and expenses and related disclosures of contingent assets and
liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.
The SEC has defined a company's critical accounting policies as the ones that
are most important to the portrayal of the company's financial condition and
results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult
and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of
matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have
identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We
also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates,
judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results.
For additional information see "Note 1-- Accounting Policies," in Item 1 of Part
I, "Financial Statements," of this Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q and "Note 1-- Description of Business and Accounting
Policies" in Item 8 of Part II, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,"
of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002.
Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are
reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results
may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions,
judgments, or conditions.
Significant Accounting Policies
Inventories
Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are accounted for
using the FIFO method, and are valued at the lower of cost or market value.
This requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available information,
about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual
customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected
recoverable values of each disposition category. Based on this evaluation, we
record a valuation allowance to adjust the carrying amount of our inventories
to lower of cost or market value.
Revenue Recognition
We recognize revenue from product sales or services rendered when the
following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an
arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the
selling price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably
assured.
We
evaluate the criteria of EITF Issue No. 99-19, Reporting Revenue Gross
as a Principal Versus Net as an Agent, in determining whether it is
appropriate to record the gross amount of product sales and related costs or
the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are the primary
obligor in a transaction, are subject to inventory risk, have latitude in
establishing prices and selecting suppliers, or have several but not all of
these indicators, revenue is recorded gross. If we are not the primary
18
Table of Contents
obligor and amounts earned are determined using a fixed percentage, a
fixed-payment schedule, or a combination of the two, we generally record the
net amounts as commissions earned.
Product
sales, net of promotional discounts, rebates, and return
allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes to
customers. Retail items sold to customers are made pursuant to a sales contract
that provides for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon our delivery to
the carrier. Return allowances, which reduce product revenue by our best
estimate of expected product returns, are estimated using historical
experience.
We periodically provide incentive offers to our customers to encourage
purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such as percentage
discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such as offers for future
discounts subject to a minimum current purchase, and other similar offers.
Current discount offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a
reduction to the purchase price of the related transaction, while inducement
offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to purchase
price based on estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using
our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount
offers and inducement offers are presented as a net amount in "Net sales."
Commissions and per-unit fees received from third-party sellers and
amounts earned through our Merchant.com program are recognized when the item is
sold by the third-party seller and our collectibility is reasonably assured. We
record an allowance for estimated refunds on such commissions using historical
experience.
We earn revenues from business-to-business commercial agreements,
including providing our technology services such as search, browse and
personalization; permitting other businesses and individuals to offer products
or services through our Websites; and powering third-party Websites, either
with or without providing accompanying fulfillment services. These commercial
agreements also include miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. As
compensation for the services we provide under these agreements, we generally
receive cash. In the past, we have accepted as compensation under these
arrangements equity securities, or a combination of equity securities and cash.
We measure the fair value of any equity consideration when the agreement is
executed or when forfeiture or vesting provisions lapse. We generally recognize
revenue from these marketing and promotional services (including revenues
associated with non-refundable advance payments) on a straight-line basis over
the period during which we perform services under these agreements, commencing
at the launch date of the service. If we receive non-refundable advance
payments, such amounts are deferred for revenue recognition purposes until
service commences. Equity-based revenue during the three months ended June 30,
2003 was insignificant. We recorded equity-based revenues of $5 million for the
three months ended June 30, 2002. Equity-based revenues for the six months
ended June 30, 2003 and 2002 were less than $1 million and $10 million.
We have in the past, and may in the future, amend our agreements with
certain of the companies with which we have commercial agreements to modify
future cash proceeds to be received by us, modify the service term of our
commercial agreements, or both. Although these amendments generally do not
affect the amount of unearned revenue previously recorded by us (if any), the
timing of future revenue recognition changes to correspond with the terms of
amended agreements. These amendments or future amendments will affect the
timing and amount of revenues recognized in connection with these commercial
agreements. To the extent we believe any such amendments cause or may cause the
compensation to be received under an agreement to no longer be fixed or
determinable, we limit our revenue recognition to amounts received, excluding
any future amounts not deemed fixed or determinable. As future amounts are
subsequently received, such amounts are incorporated into our revenue
recognition over the remaining term of the agreement.
Vendor Agreements
We have agreements to receive cash consideration from certain of our
vendors, including rebates and cooperative marketing reimbursements. We
generally presume amounts received from our vendors are a reduction of the
prices we pay for their products and therefore we reflect such amounts as
either a reduction of "Cost of sales" on our consolidated statements of
operations, or if the product inventory is still on hand at the reporting date,
it is reflected as a reduction of "Inventories" on our consolidated balance
sheets. When we receive direct reimbursements for costs incurred by us in
selling the vendor's product or service, the amount we receive is recorded as
an offset to "Marketing" on our consolidated statements of operations.
Vendor rebates are typically dependent upon reaching minimum purchase
thresholds. We evaluate the likelihood of reaching purchase thresholds using
past experience and current year forecasts. When rebates can be reasonably
estimated, we record a portion of the rebate as we make progress towards the
purchase threshold. Our accounting treatment is consistent with the conclusions
reached in EITF 02-16, Accounting by a Customer (Including a Reseller) for
Certain Consideration Received from a Vendor.
19
Table of Contents
Accounting for Goodwill
SFAS No. 142 prescribes a two-phase process for impairment testing
of goodwill, which is performed once annually, absent indicators of impairment.
The first phase screens for impairment, while the second phase (if necessary)
measures the impairment. We have elected to perform our annual analysis during
the fourth calendar quarter of each year. No indicators of impairment were
identified during the first half of 2003.
Restructuring Estimates
Restructuring-related liabilities include estimates for, among other
things, anticipated disposition of lease obligations. Key variables in
determining such estimates include anticipated timing of sublease
rentals, estimates of sublease rental payment amounts and tenant improvement
costs, and estimates for brokerage and other related costs. We periodically
evaluate and, if necessary, adjust our estimates based on currently-available
information.
Results of Operations
Segments Description
We present segment information along the same lines that our chief
operating decision maker reviews our operating results in assessing performance
and allocating resources. During the first quarter of 2003, our chief operating
decision maker began reviewing operating results along two lines: North America
and International. This change was prompted by the increasing prominence and
overall importance of third party sellers on our Websites as well as how both
capital and human resources are allocated for technology and fulfillment
operations. We have aligned our organization with the primary management
objective of increasing overall unit sales volume, regardless of whether a
third party or the Company is the seller.
The North America segment includes amounts earned from retail sales of
consumer products through and (including from
third-party sellers), from North America focused Syndicated Stores and
mail-order catalogs and from non-retail activities such as North America
focused Merchant.com, marketing, and promotional agreements. The International
segment includes amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products through
, , , and (including
from third-party sellers), from internationally focused Syndicated Stores, and
from non-retail activities such as internationally focused marketing and
promotional agreements. Our International segment includes export sales from
, , , and (including
export sales from these sites to customers in the U.S. and Canada), but
excludes export sales from and .
Net Sales
Net sales include the selling price of consumer products sold by us, less
promotional discounts, rebates, and sales returns; outbound shipping charges
billed to our customers; commissions earned, consisting of fixed fees, sales
commissions, per-unit activity fees, or some combination thereof, from
third-party sellers on our sites, including Merchant@ and Amazon Marketplace
sellers; the selling price of consumer products sold by us through our
Syndicated Stores program; amounts earned (fixed fees, sales commissions,
per-unit activity fees, or some combination thereof) in connection with our
Merchant.com program; and amounts earned for miscellaneous marketing and
promotional agreements.
Net sales were $1.10 billion and $806 million for the three months ended
June 30, 2003 and 2002, and $2.18 billion and $1.65 billion for the six months
ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, representing increases of 37% and 32%. Net sales
for our North America segment were $703 million and $586 million for the three
months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, and $1.41 billion and $1.21 billion for
the six months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, representing increases of 20% and
17%. Net sales for our International segment were $397 million and $219 million for the three months ended
June 30, 2003 and 2002, and $776 million and $445 million for the six months ended June 30,
2003 and 2002, representing increases of 81% and 74%. Net sales for
the three and six
months ended June 30, 2003 benefited by worldwide sales of over 1.4 million
units of the book Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix. Growth in unit
sales is greater than growth in net sales due to lower prices, including as a
result of our free shipping promotions, and to an increasing percentage of
units being sold by third parties for which we earn a net commission. Net sales
benefited $55 million in comparison to
the second quarter of 2002, and $106 million in comparison to the six months ended June 30, 2002, due to changes in
foreign exchange rates as the U.S. Dollar weakened. The future growth of our
International segment may fluctuate significantly with changes in foreign
exchange rates. See "Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results -- We
Have Foreign Exchange Risk."
20
Table of Contents
Shipping revenue, which consists of outbound shipping charges to our
customers and excludes amounts earned from third-party sellers, was $80 million
and $81 million for the three months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, and $158
million and $171 million for the six months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002. The
decline in shipping revenue in comparison to the prior year periods is
primarily due to the increased acceptance by our customers of our free shipping
offers. We provide to our customers free shipping alternatives worldwide, which
reduce shipping revenue as a percentage of sales and cause our gross margins on
retail sales to decline. We view these shipping offers as an effective
marketing tool and intend to continue offering these alternatives indefinitely.
Gross Profit
Cost of sales consists of the purchase price of consumer products sold by
us, inbound and outbound shipping charges to us, packaging supplies, and certain
costs associated with our service revenues. In instances where we incur
fulfillment costs to ship products on behalf of third-party sellers or provide
customer service on their behalf, such costs are classified as "Cost of sales"
rather than "Fulfillment" on the consolidated statements of operations.
Gross profit was $274 million and $218 million for the three months ended
June 30, 2003 and 2002, and $545 million and $441 million for the six months
ended June 30, 2003 and 2002. Gross margin was 24.9% and 27.1% for the three
months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, and 24.9% and 26.7% for the six months
ended June 30, 2003 and 2002.
Gross profit for our North America segment was $190 million and $170
million for the three months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, and $377 million and
$344 million for the six months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002. Gross margin was
27.1% and 29.0% for our North America segment during the three months ended
June 30, 2003 and 2002, and 26.8% and 28.5% for the six months ended June 30,
2003 and 2002.
Gross profit for our International segment was $84 million and $48 million
for the three months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, and $168 million and $98
million for the six months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002. Gross margin was
21.1% and 21.9% for our International segment during the three months ended
June 30, 2003 and 2002, and 21.6% and 21.9% for the six months ended June 30,
2003 and 2002.
The increases in gross profit in comparison with the prior periods
correspond with increases in unit sales, including those by third-party
sellers, offset by our year-around free shipping offers and lower prices for customers. The decline in gross margin in
comparison to the prior year is primarily the result of our year-round free
shipping offers and lower prices for customers, partially offset by
increases in higher-margin sales by third parties and improvements in vendor pricing.
Our overall gross margins fluctuate based on several factors, including our mix
of sales during the period, sales volumes by third-party sellers, competitive
pricing decisions, changes in vendor pricing, and general efforts to reduce prices for our customers over
time, as well as the extent to which our customers accept our free shipping
offers. Gross profit benefited $12 million in comparison to the second quarter
of 2002, and $23 million in comparison to the six months ended June 30, 2002,
due to changes in foreign exchange rates as the U.S. Dollar weakened.
During the second quarter of 2003, we sold approximately
1.4 million copies of Harry Potter and the Order of the
Phoenix at a discount of approximately 40% off list price.
Including the effect of related shipping, these sales were fulfilled
at roughly our overall cost, which had a negative effect on our gross
margin.
Sales of products by third-party sellers continue to increase. Since
revenues from these sales are recorded as a net amount, they result in lower
revenues but higher gross margins per unit. To the extent product sales by
third-party sellers continue to increase, we anticipate improvement in gross
margin, offset to the extent we offer additional or broader price reductions,
free shipping offers, and other promotions.
Shipping activity resulted in a loss of $26 million and a profit of $2
million for the three months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002. Shipping activity
resulted in a loss of $53 million and a profit of $1 million for the six months
ended June 30, 2003 and 2002. The loss from shipping primarily reflects the
increased acceptance by our customers of our free shipping offers, offset in
part by cost reductions from efficiencies in our outbound shipping. We continue
to measure our shipping results relative to their effect on our overall
financial results, with the viewpoint that free shipping offers are an
effective marketing tool. We intend to continue offering these alternatives,
which will reduce shipping revenue as a percentage of sales and negatively
affect gross margins.
Fulfillment
Fulfillment costs represent those costs incurred in operating and staffing
our fulfillment and customer service centers, including costs attributable to
receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and
preparing customer orders for shipment; credit card fees and bad debt costs;
and responding to inquiries from customers. Fulfillment costs also include
amounts paid to third-parties that assist us in fulfillment and customer
service operations. Certain of our fulfillment-related costs that are incurred
on
21
Table of Contents
behalf of other businesses, such as Toysrus.com, Inc. and Target
Corporation, are classified as cost of sales rather than fulfillment.
Fulfillment costs were $107 million and $86 million for the three months ended
June 30, 2003 and 2002, representing 10% and 11% of net sales and $211 million and $176 million for the six months ended June 30, 2003
and 2002, representing 10% and 11% of net sales. The increase in fulfillment
costs in comparison with the prior year primarily corresponds with sales
volume. The improvement in fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales
results from improvements in productivity and accuracy, the increase in units
fulfilled which leverages the fixed-cost portion of our fulfillment network,
efficiencies gained through utilization of fulfillment services provided by
third parties, a decline in customer service contacts per order resulting
from improvements in our operations, and enhancements to our customer
self-service features available on our Websites. These improvements were
offset, in part, by credit card fees associated with third-party seller
transactions, which represent a significant percentage relative to commission
amounts earned, and as a result, negatively affect fulfillment as a percentage
of net sales.
Marketing
Marketing expenses consist of advertising, on-line marketing, promotional
and public relations expenditures, and payroll and related expenses for
personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities. Marketing expenses, net
of co-operative marketing reimbursements, were $25 million and $29 million for
the three months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, representing 2% and 4% of net
sales, and $54 million and $61 million for the six months ended June 30, 2003
and 2002, representing 2% and 4% of net sales. To the extent co-operative
marketing reimbursements decline in future periods, we may incur additional
expenses to continue certain promotions or elect to reduce or discontinue them.
Declines in expense for marketing-related activities reflect our efforts
to cut ineffective marketing programs, as well as reduced rates charged to us
for some online marketing activities. These decreases are partially offset by
increased investment in marketing channels considered most effective in driving
incremental net sales, such as our Associates program. Our Associates program
enables participating Websites to make our products available to their audiences
with fulfillment performed by us. We provide to our customers free shipping
alternatives, and although the effect of these shipping offers are
reflected in gross profit and does not directly affect
marketing expenses, we view these offers as an effective marketing tool. We
intend to continue offering these free shipping alternatives indefinitely.
Technology and Content
Technology and content expenses consist principally of payroll and related
expenses for development, editorial, systems, and telecommunications operations
personnel; systems and telecommunications infrastructure; and costs of acquired
content, including freelance reviews. Technology and content expenses were $52
million and $58 million for the three months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002,
representing 5% and 7% of net sales, and $102 million and $114 million for the
six months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, representing 5% and 7% of net sales.
The decline in absolute dollars spent in comparison with the prior year period
primarily reflects efficiency improvements in our systems infrastructure, as
well as improved expense management and general price reductions in some
expense categories. We expect to continue investing in technology and
improvements to our Websites, which may include, but are not limited to,
hiring additional employees, offering additional Website features and product categories to our customers, and implementing
additional commercial relationships, as well as potentially continuing our
international expansion.
General and Administrative
General and administrative expenses consist of payroll and related
expenses for executive, finance, and administrative personnel, human resources,
professional fees, and other general corporate expenses. General and
administrative expenses were $22 million and $19 million for the three months
ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, representing 2% of net sales in
each period, and $43
million and $40 million for the six months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002,
representing 2% of net sales in each period.
22
Table of Contents
Stock-Based Compensation
Stock-based compensation consisted of the following (in thousands):
We grant restricted stock units as our primary form of stock-based
compensation; however, in certain of our foreign jurisdictions, we continue to
grant stock options. Stock options granted after December 31, 2002 are subject
to variable accounting treatment. Unless subject to variable accounting
treatment, restricted stock units, as well as restricted stock, are measured at
fair value on the date of grant based on the number of shares granted and the
quoted price of our common stock. Such value is recognized as an expense over
the corresponding service period. To the extent restricted stock or restricted stock units are forfeited prior to vesting, the corresponding
previously recognized expense is reversed as an offset to "Stock-based
compensation."
We record the employer portion of payroll tax expense resulting from
exercises of stock-based awards in "Fulfillment," "Marketing," "Technology and
content," and "General and administrative" on our consolidated statements of
operations and do not include such expenses in "Stock-based compensation."
Stock-based compensation includes matching contributions under our 401(k)
program.
Using the following hypothetical market prices of our common stock above
and below our June 30, 2003 closing price of $36.32, our
stock-based compensation expense for the three months ended June 30, 2003 would
have been affected by variable accounting treatment as follows (in thousands,
except percentages and per share amounts):
If at the end of any quarter the quoted price of our common stock is lower
than the quoted price at the end of the previous quarter, or to the extent
previously-recorded amounts relate to unvested portions of options that are
subsequently cancelled, compensation expense associated with variable
accounting will be recalculated using the cumulative expense method and may
result in a net benefit to our results of operations.
We granted stock awards representing 1.6 million and 0.8 million shares of
common stock during the three months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, and 1.8
million and 1.7 million shares of common stock during the six months ended June
30, 2003 and 2002. These awards generally vest over service periods of between
three and six years. Common shares outstanding, which includes restricted
23
Table of Contents
stock, plus shares underlying stock options and restricted stock units
totaled 433 million at June 30, 2003, an increase of 1% compared with June 30,
2002.
Outstanding stock awards were as follows (in thousands):
Restructuring-Related and Other
As previously disclosed, in the first quarter of 2001 we announced and
began implementation of our operational restructuring plan. The restructuring
is complete; however, we may adjust our restructuring-related estimates in the
future, if necessary. Restructuring-related and other expenses were $10 million
for the six months ended June 30, 2002 associated with the
revision of our January 2001 restructuring estimates for ongoing lease
obligations for our facilities in Seattle, Washington and McDonough, Georgia.
No similar expenses were incurred during the three or six months ended June 30,
2003.
Cash payments resulting from our operational restructuring were $4 million
and $13 million for the three months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, and $20
million and $26 million for the six months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002. In
December 2002, we reached a termination agreement with the landlord of our
leased fulfillment center facility in McDonough, Georgia. This agreement
resulted in $12 million of cash payments in the first quarter of 2003,
including $8 million associated with the termination agreement and $4 million
associated with restoration costs. No further payments are required relating to
the McDonough, Georgia facility. Included in our estimate of future cash
payments associated with our January 2001 restructuring are estimated sublease
cash receipts of $47 million, of which, at June 30, 2003, $10 million are
covered by sublease agreements. We estimate, based on currently available
information, the remaining net cash outflows associated with our
restructuring-related commitments will be as follows (in thousands):
24
Table of Contents
Segment Operating Income
Our chief operating decision maker reviews our segment operating results
based on a measure of segment operating profit or loss that excludes
stock-based compensation, amortization of other intangibles, and
restructuring-related and other charges, each of which is not allocated to
segment results. All other centrally-incurred operating costs are fully
allocated to segment results. There are no internal revenue transactions
between our reporting segments. See "Note 10 - Segment
Information," in Item 1 of Part I,
"Financial Statements" for additional information, including a reconciliation
of segment results to "Net loss" as reported under GAAP.
Our North America segment operating income was $55 million and $36 million
for the three months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, representing an increase of
53%, and $106 million and $71 million for the six months ended June 30, 2003
and 2002, representing an increase of 49%. This improvement primarily results
from increasing revenues, including amounts earned from sales by third parties,
and leveraging our direct cost structure relative to sales growth, partially
offset by a 1% decline in segment gross margin.
Our International segment operating income was $13 million in comparison
to a loss of $10 million for the three months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, and
$28 million in comparison to a loss of $20 million for the six months ended
June 30, 2003 and 2002. These improvements primarily resulted
from revenue growth of 81% and 74% for the three and six months
ended June 30, 2003. Also contributing to the improvement in our
International segment operating income was leverage in our direct cost
structure relative to sales growth. International segment operating income benefited $3 million in comparison to the second quarter of 2002 due
to changes in foreign exchange rates as the U.S. Dollar weakened.
Income from Operations
Our income from operations was $42 million and $1 million for the three
months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, and $81 million and $3 million for the six
months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002. The improvement in operating results in
comparison with the prior year was attributable to increasing
revenues and leveraging our direct cost
structure relative to sales growth. Income from operations benefited
$3 million and $7 million in comparison to the three and
six months ended June 30, 2002 due to changes in foreign
exchange rates as the U.S. Dollar weakened.
Net Interest Expense
Net interest expense was $29 million and $30 million for the three months
ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, and $59 million and $60 million for the six
months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002. Interest income was $6 million for each
of the three months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, and $12 million and $11
million for the six months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002. Interest expense was
$34 million and $36 million for the three months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002,
and $71 million for each of the six months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002.
Interest income fluctuates with prevailing interest rates and the average
balance of invested funds. Interest expense is primarily related to our 6.875%
PEACS, 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes, and our 10% Senior Discount Notes
that we redeemed on May 28, 2003. Interest expense decreased $2 million in comparison to the three months ended June 30, 2002 primarily
due to our recent redemption of our 10% Senior Discount Notes, offset by the
negative effect on interest expense associated with our 6.875% PEACS as the
U.S. Dollar weakened in comparison to the Euro. In addition, the recent
termination of our Euro Currency Swap will make future interest expense more
volatile.
Other Income (Expense), Net
Other income (expense), net consisted of the following (in thousands):
25
Table of Contents
Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and Other
Each period the remeasurement of our 6.875% PEACS from Euros to U.S.
Dollars results in gains or losses recorded to "Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS
and other," on our consolidated statements of operations.
On May 28, 2003, we redeemed our 10% Senior Discounts Notes for $277
million, consisting of principal repayment of $264 million and a 5% premium of
$13 million. We recorded a charge of $15 million to "Remeasurement of 6.875%
PEACS and other" representing the 5% premium and $2 million of remaining
deferred issuance charges. Additionally, we paid $2 million to holders of our
10% Senior Discount Notes for interest accrued between May 1, 2003 and May 28,
2003. The interest payment was recorded to "Interest expense" on the
consolidated statements of operations.
At
June 30, 2003, the remaining cumulative unrealized loss
associated with our Euro Currency Swap, recorded to "Accumulated
other comprehensive income," was $14 million. During
the second quarter of 2003, we terminated our Euro Currency Swap and,
although neither party made cash payments to terminate, we recorded a
non-cash loss of $6 million to "Remeasurement of 6.875%
PEACS and other" representing the remaining basis in our swap
asset. In accordance with SFAS No. 133, Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, reclassifications
of this accumulated loss will be recorded to "Remeasurement of
6.875% PEACS and other" over the life of the 6.875% PEACS. If we
redeem or otherwise restructure our 6.875% PEACS prior to maturity in
2010, any remaining cumulative unrealized loss associated with the
Euro Currency Swap will be recorded as a charge to
"Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and other."
Equity in Losses of Equity-Method Investees
No equity-method losses were recorded during the second quarter of 2003
since our basis in equity-method investments was reduced to zero as of March
31, 2003. Equity-method losses were $1.2 million for the three months ended
June 30, 2002, and $0.4 million and $2.9 million for the six months ended June
30, 2003 and 2002. Equity-method losses are only recorded until the underlying
investments are reduced to zero.
Income Taxes
We
have provided for current and deferred U.S. federal, state, and foreign
income taxes for the current and all prior periods presented. Current and
deferred income taxes were provided with respect to jurisdictions where certain
of our subsidiaries produce taxable income. As of June 30, 2003, we have
recorded a net deferred tax asset of $5 million, classified in "Other assets,"
which consists primarily of certain state jurisdiction net operating loss
carryforwards. We have provided a valuation allowance for the remainder of our
deferred tax asset, consisting primarily of net operating loss carryforwards,
because of uncertainty regarding its realization.
At June 30, 2003, we had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately
$2.7 billion related to U.S. federal, state, and foreign jurisdictions.
Utilization of net operating loss carryforwards, which begin to expire at
various times starting in 2010, may be subject to certain limitations under
Sections 382 and 1502 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and other
limitations under state and foreign tax laws. Additionally, approximately $218
million of capital loss carryforwards begins to expire in 2005. Approximately
$1.3 billion of our net operating loss carryforwards relates to tax deductible
stock-based compensation in excess of amounts recognized for financial
reporting purposes. To the extent that net operating loss carryforwards, if
realized, relate to stock-based compensation, the resulting tax benefits will
be recorded to stockholders' equity, rather than to results of operations.
26
Table of Contents
Net Loss
Net loss was $43 million and $94 million for the three months ended June
30, 2003 and 2002, and $53 million and $117 million for the six months ended
June 30, 2003 and 2002. Year over year improvements during the second quarter
of 2003 primarily resulted from improvements in operating income.
Although we reported improvement in our net loss relative to the prior
year comparable period, this improvement is not necessarily
predictive of future results for a variety of reasons. For example, we are
unable to forecast the effect on our future reported results of certain items,
including the stock-based compensation associated with variable accounting
treatment and the gain or loss associated with the remeasurement of our 6.875%
PEACS that results from fluctuations between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro.
These items represented significant charges during the first and second
quarters of 2003 and may result in significant charges or gains in future
periods.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Regulation G, "Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures," and
other provisions of the 1934 Act define and prescribe the conditions for use of
certain non-GAAP financial information. We believe that certain of our financial
measures which meet the definition of a non-GAAP financial measure
are important supplemental information to investors. We provide:
"consolidated segment operating income (loss),"
"pro forma net income (loss)," "pro forma net income (loss) per share," and
"free cash flow."
We use these non-GAAP financial measures for internal managerial purposes,
when publicly providing guidance on possible future results, and as a means to
evaluate period-to-period comparisons. These non-GAAP financial measures are
used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance
with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be relied
upon to the exclusion
of GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an
additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our
GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP
financial measures, provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends
affecting our business. Management strongly encourages investors to review our
financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and to not
rely on any single financial measure.
Because non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized, it may not be
possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP
financial measures having the same or similar names. For example, certain
companies disclose a financial measure of earnings before certain charges such
as interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, commonly referred to as
EBITDA. We considered the use of EBITDA as a supplemental performance measure
to GAAP, but believe consolidated segment operating income (loss) and
pro forma net income (loss) are superior for our Company as certain periodic costs associated with our invested capital, such as fixed
asset depreciation expense and amortization of software development costs, and
certain costs associated with our capital structure, such as interest expense,
are relevant and important factors affecting our management decisions. For
information about our financial results as reported in accordance with GAAP,
see Item 8 of Part II, "Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data" in our Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002 and for a quantitative reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures
to the most comparable GAAP financial measures, see
"Reconciliation Tables" below.
Consolidated Segment Operating Income (Loss)
We measure operating results of our segments using an internal performance
measure of direct segment operating expenses that excludes:
These operating expense line items are not allocated to segment results,
and all other centrally-incurred operating costs are fully allocated to segment
results. The sum of our individual segment results is consolidated segment
operating income (loss), which we reconcile to GAAP operating income (loss).
Pursuant to SEC staff interpretations of Regulation G, when presented in our
financial statement footnotes, consolidated segment operating income is a GAAP
financial measure; however, since we also present this financial measure
outside the context of our financial statement footnotes, we have included this
financial measure in our discussion of non-GAAP financial measures.
27
Table of Contents
We
use consolidated segment operating income (loss), and ratios based on
it, to manage and evaluate
our business operations and overall financial performance. Our management
evaluates consolidated segment income (loss) because it excludes certain cash
and non-cash items that are either beyond our immediate control or that we
believe are not characteristic of our underlying business operations for the
period in which they are recorded, or both.
Items Excluded From Consolidated Segment Operating Income
Stock-Based Compensation
We exclude stock-based compensation for the following reasons:
We record the employer portion of payroll tax expense resulting from
exercises of stock-based awards in "Fulfillment," "Marketing," "Technology and
content," and "General and administrative" on our consolidated statements of
operations and do not include such expenses in "Stock-based compensation."
Amortization of Other Intangibles
We
exclude "Amortization of other intangibles" for the
following reasons:
Restructuring-Related and Other
We exclude restructuring related and other expenses, which are cash and
non-cash amounts, for the following reasons:
Limitations of Consolidated Segment Operating Income (Loss)
Consolidated segment operating income (loss) has certain limitations.
First, because it excludes "Stock-based compensation," the financial measure
does not include all expenses primarily related to our workforce. We compensate
for this limitation by providing supplemental information about stock-based
compensation on the face of our consolidated statements of operations
and in the footnotes to our financial statements. We also
provide supplemental information about outstanding stock-based awards,
including their dilutive effect on shareholders, in the footnotes to
our financial statements. See "Note 1 - Accounting
Policies" in Item 1 of Part I, "Financial Statements" for presentation of our
stock-based compensation expense calculated on a consistent basis for all
awards using the fair value method as prescribed under SFAS No. 123, as well as
total outstanding stock-based awards and related activity.
28
Table of Contents
Second, consolidated segment operating income (loss) excludes
"Restructuring-related and other." For companies that periodically undergo
restructuring events, excluding such costs from performance measures
could provide an incomplete summary of ongoing costs that would affect future
cash flows. However, we compensate for this limitation by disclosing cash flow
measures, including operating cash flow, that incorporate all ongoing cash
obligations associated with our January 2001 restructuring event and by providing
disclosure of future estimated cash flows and remaining commitments associated
with this event. See "Note 6 --
Restructuring-Related and Other," in Item 1 of Part I, "Financial Statements."
There can be no assurance that we will not undertake another
restructuring event in
the future that would affect future cash flows. If we have a
restructuring event in
the future, we will re-evaluate our decision to exclude such charges from our
consolidated segment operating income (loss) based on those future facts and
circumstances at that time.
Pro Forma Net Income (Loss)
Pro forma net income (loss), including the related pro forma net income
(loss) per share, which we reconcile to net income (loss) and net income (loss)
per share, excludes, in addition to the line items described above as excluded
from consolidated segment operating income (loss), the following line items on
our consolidated statements of operations:
We
use pro forma net income (loss), and ratios based on it, to manage and evaluate our business
operations and overall financial performance. Our decision to use this
financial measure is due to the fact that pro forma net income (loss) excludes
certain cash and non-cash items that are either beyond our immediate control or
are not characteristic of our underlying business operations for the period in
which they are recorded, or both.
Items
Excluded From Pro Forma Net Income (Loss)
See "Consolidated Segment Operating Income - Excluded Items" for an
explanation of "Stock-based compensation," "Amortization of other intangibles,"
and "Restructuring-related and other."
Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and Other
The majority of "Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and other" consists of
gains or charges due to our quarterly remeasurement of the principal of our
6.875% PEACS from Euros to U.S. Dollars. We exclude the effect of these
periodic remeasurements from our pro forma net income (loss) because the
ultimate cash effect resulting from changes in exchange rates is inherently
uncertain. These gains or charges would only affect near-term cash flows if we
redeem or, in certain cases, restructure, our 6.875% PEACS in the next several
years, rather than over a longer term or at maturity in 2010. Because these
charges and gains vary based on exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and
Euro, these amounts are beyond our immediate control and are difficult to predict
for future periods. Additionally, this line item includes $15
million of losses associated with the redemption of our 10% Senior Discount
Notes and $6 million of losses associated with the termination of our Euro
Currency Swap, each of which occurred in the second quarter of 2003.
Equity in Losses of Equity-Method Investees, Net
We exclude equity in losses of equity-method investees, net, because it
generates potential non-cash gains or losses, which are based on the financial
results of other companies that we do not manage or control and are difficult
to predict. In addition, we believe these non-cash gains and losses are not
indicative of our financial or operating performance. Finally, in recent
quarters, these amounts represented insignificant charges and, absent future
investments, we expect this trend to continue. In the second quarter 2003, we
recorded no equity method losses or gains.
Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle
We exclude cumulative effect of change in accounting principle because it
generates non-cash charges, which we believe are not indicative of our
financial or operating performance.
29
Table of Contents
Limitations of Pro Forma Net Income (Loss)
Pro forma net income (loss) has the same limitations as consolidated
segment operating income. See "Consolidated Segment Operating Income -
Limitations of Consolidated Segment Operating Income" above. In addition, when
the 6.875% PEACS are retired, whether by early redemption or restructuring or
at maturity in 2010, the foreign currency effect of changes in the exchange
ratio between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro will result in a cash effect. We
compensate for this limitation by valuing the 6.875% PEACS at fair value on our
consolidated balance sheets and including that fair value in our summary of
commitments in the notes to our financial statements. See "Note 3 - Long-Term
Debt and Other," and "Note 4 - Commitments and Contingencies" in Item 1 of Part
I, "Financial Statements."
Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow, which we reconcile to "Net cash provided by (used in)
operating activities," is cash flow from operations reduced by "Purchases of
fixed assets, including internal-use software and Website development." We use
free cash flow, and ratios based on it, to conduct and evaluate our business because, although it is
similar to cash flow from operations, we believe it is a more conservative
measure of cash flows since purchases of fixed assets are a necessary component
of ongoing operations. In limited circumstances where proceeds from sales of
fixed assets exceed purchases, free cash flow would exceed cash flow from
operations. However, since we do not anticipate selling significant portions of
fixed assets, we expect free cash flow to be less than operating cash flows.
Limitations of Free Cash Flow
Free cash flow has limitations due to the fact that it does not represent
the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example,
it does not exclude payments made on capital lease obligations. Therefore, we
believe it is important to view free cash flow as a complement to our entire
consolidated statements of cash flows.
30
Table of Contents
Reconciliation Table
The following is a reconciliation of our non-GAAP measures to the
most comparable GAAP measures for the three months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002 (in
thousands, expect per share data). Interim reconciliations are consistent with
full-year presentation.
31
Table of Contents
The following is a reconciliation of our non-GAAP measures to the
most comparable GAAP measures for the six months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002 (in
thousands, expect per share data). Interim reconciliations are consistent with
full-year presentation.
32
Table of Contents
Since our cash flows are affected by the seasonality of our business, we
have also provided the following reconciliation of our non-GAAP measure of free
cash flow on a trailing-twelve month basis (in thousands).
Guidance
Third
quarter of 2003 net sales are expected to be between $1.075 billion and
$1.15 billion, or grow between 26% and 35%,
compared with third quarter of 2002.
For the full year 2003, net sales are expected to be between
$4.9 billion and
$5.1 billion, or grow between 25% and 30%,
compared to 2002. However,
any such projections are subject to substantial uncertainty. See Item 2 of
Part 1, "Business - Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results."
Assuming among other things, and solely for purposes of this estimate,
that we do not record any revisions to our restructuring-related estimates and
that the closing price of our common stock on September 30, 2003 and December
31, 2003 is identical to the closing price of $36.32 on June 30, 2003,
operating income for the third quarter of 2003 is expected to be
between $40 million
and $55 million, and, for the full year of 2003, to be between
$215 million
and $255 million. However, any such projections are subject to
substantial uncertainty. See Item 1 of Part I, "Business -- Additional Factors
That May Affect Future Results." In addition, our GAAP operating projections
are based on an assumption about our future stock price performance, which is
required to estimate stock-based compensation and is difficult to accurately
predict.
Third quarter of 2003 consolidated segment operating income is expected to
be between $55 million and $70 million compared with third quarter of 2002.
For the full year 2003, consolidated segment operating income is expected to be
between $300 million and $340 million compared to 2002. However, any such
projections are subject to substantial uncertainty. See Item 2 of Part 1,
"Business - Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results."
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash, cash equivalents, and
marketable securities. Our cash and cash equivalents balance was $642 million
and $738 million, and our marketable securities balance was $347 million and
$563 million at June 30, 2003 and December 31, 2002. Combined cash, cash
equivalents, and marketable securities were $989 million and $1.30 billion at
June 30, 2003 and December 31, 2002. In the second quarter of 2003, our cash,
cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances were impacted by our
payment of $277 million related to the redemption of all of our remaining 10%
Senior Discount Notes.
33
Table of Contents
We have pledged a portion of our marketable securities as collateral for
standby letters of credit that guarantee certain of our contractual
obligations and for real estate lease agreements.
The change in the total amount of collateral pledged under these agreements was
as follows (in thousands):
As of June 30, 2003, our principal commitments consisted of long-term
indebtedness totaling $2.07 billion related primarily to our 6.875% PEACS and
4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes; trade payables of $445 million; and
accrued expenses and other liabilities of $232 million, which includes current
restructuring-related obligations of $12 million. We are scheduled under
certain of our long-term debt obligations to make periodic interest payments
through 2010 in the aggregate of $737 million and are obligated under operating
leases and commitments for advertising and promotional arrangements in the
aggregate of $339 million and $6 million.
The following are our contractual commitments associated with our
indebtedness, lease obligations, marketing agreements, and operational
restructuring (in thousands):
34
Table of Contents
Restructuring-related lease obligations are as follows (in thousands):
Net cash provided in operating activities was $126 million and $5 million
for the three months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002, and net cash used in
operating activities was $126 million and $236 million for the six months ended
June 30, 2003 and 2002. The seasonal nature our business in relation to the
holiday shopping season, together with the payment terms we have arranged with
our vendors, generally results in settlement of our holiday season obligations
during the first quarter of the following year. This seasonal effect results in
large net cash inflows from our operations during the fourth calendar quarter
of each year and large net cash outflows from our operations during the first
calendar quarter of each year. Operating cash flows and free cash flows can be
volatile and are sensitive to many factors, including changes in working
capital. Working capital at any specific point in time is subject to many
variables, including world events, seasonality, the timing of expense payments,
discounts offered by vendors, and vendor payment terms. For example, our second
quarter of 2003 trailing twelve month operating cash flow and free cash flow
were positively impacted by approximately $20 million because, as previously
reported, a credit card service provider unintentionally failed to make a
scheduled quarter-end payment to us until the third quarter of 2002, and in the
second quarter 2003 we purchased and received customer payment for over 1.4
million units of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, for which payment
was generally not due to our vendors until after the second quarter of 2003.
Net cash provided by investing activities was $234 million compared to
cash used in investing activities of $94 million for the three months ended
June 30, 2003 and 2002. The primary activities affecting these cash flows are
investment management activities (i.e., purchases, sales, and maturities of
marketable securities), and investments in fixed assets. During the three
months ended June 30, 2003, net sales and maturities of marketable securities
were $241 million, liquidated, in part, to fund the redemption of our 10%
Senior Discount Notes. Additionally, purchases of fixed assets, including
internal-use software costs, were $7 million. In the prior year period,
purchases of marketable securities exceeded sales and maturities by $87 million
and purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software costs, were $7
million. Net cash provided by investing activities was $203 million compared to
cash used in investing activities of $96 million for the six
months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002. During the six months ended June 30, 2003, net sales of
marketable securities were $217 million and purchases of fixed assets,
including internal-use software costs, were $14 million. For the six months
ended June 30, 2002, net purchases of marketable securities were $84 million
and purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software costs, were $12
million.
Cash used by financing activities was $228 million compared to cash
provided by financing activities of $39 million during the three months ended
June 30, 2003 and 2002. The primary activities affecting these cash flows are
cash proceeds from exercises of stock options, repayment of long-term debt, and
repayment of capital lease obligations. During the three months ended June 30,
2003 and 2002, cash proceeds from exercises of stock options were $53 million
and $43 million, and repayments of capital lease obligations were $4 million
and $3 million. Cash used in the repayment of long-term debt during the three
months ended June 30, 2003, which consisted of the redemption of our 10% Senior
Discount Notes, was $277 million. Cash used by financing activities was $193
million compared to cash provided by financing activities of $42 million during
the six months ended June 30, 2003 and 2002. During the six months ended June
30, 2003 and 2002, cash proceeds from exercises of stock options were $92
million and $50 million, and repayments of capital lease obligations were $7
million and $8 million. We expect cash proceeds from exercises of stock options
to decline over time as we plan to issue restricted stock units as our primary
vehicle for stock-based awards.
We believe that current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities
balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at
least the next 12 months. However, any projections of future cash needs and
cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See "Additional Factors that
May Affect Future Results." We continually evaluate opportunities to sell
additional equity or debt securities, obtain credit facilities from lenders,
repurchase common stock, issue dividends, or restructure our long-term debt for
strategic reasons or to further strengthen our financial position. The sale of
additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in additional
dilution to our stockholders. In addition, we will, from time to time, consider
the acquisition of or
35
Table of Contents
investment in complementary businesses, products, services, and
technologies, which might affect our liquidity requirements or cause us to
issue additional equity or debt securities. There can be no assurance that
financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all.
The following risk factors and other information included in this
Quarterly Report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties
described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and
uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial
also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur,
our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be
materially adversely affected.
We have incurred significant losses since we began doing business. As of
June 30, 2003, we had an accumulated deficit of $3.06 billion and our
stockholders' equity was a deficit of $1.25 billion. We have incurred
substantial operating losses since our inception, and we may continue to incur
such losses for the foreseeable future.
As of June 30, 2003, we had total long-term indebtedness under our
convertible notes, capitalized-lease obligations, and other asset financings of
$2.07 billion. We make annual or semi-annual interest payments on the
indebtedness under our two tranches of convertible notes, which are due in 2009
and 2010. We may incur substantial additional debt in the future. Our
indebtedness could limit our ability to obtain necessary additional financing
for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, or other
purposes in the future; to plan for, or react to, changes in technology and in
our business and competition; and to react in the event of an economic
downturn.
There is no guarantee that we will be able to meet our debt service
obligations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or obtain funds
for required payments, or if we fail to comply with covenants in our
indebtedness, we will be in default.
The market segments in which we compete are rapidly evolving and intensely
competitive, and we have many competitors in different industries, including
both the retail and e-commerce services industries.
Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating
histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition, and significantly
greater financial, marketing, and other resources than we have. They may be
able to secure merchandise from vendors on more favorable terms and may be able
to adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Competitors in both the retail and
e-commerce services industries also may be able to devote more resources to
technology development and marketing than us.
Competition in the e-commerce channel may intensify. Other companies in
the retail and e-commerce service industries may enter into business
combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. As
various Internet market segments obtain large, loyal customer bases,
participants in those segments may expand into the market segments in which we
operate. In addition, new and expanded Web technologies may further intensify
the competitive nature of online retail. The nature of the Internet as an
electronic marketplace facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping
and renders it inherently more competitive than conventional retailing formats.
This increased competition may reduce our sales, operating profits, or both.
We may enter into commercial agreements, strategic alliances, and other
business relationships with other companies. We have entered into agreements to
provide e-commerce services to other businesses and we plan to enter into
similar agreements in the future. Under such agreements, we may perform
services such as: providing our technology services such as search, browse, and
personalization; permitting other businesses and individuals to offer products
or services through our Websites; and powering third-party Websites, either
with or without providing accompanying fulfillment services. These arrangements
are complex and initially require substantial personnel and resource
commitments by us, which may constrain the number of such agreements we are
able to enter into and may affect our ability to deliver services under the
relevant agreements. If we fail to implement, maintain, and develop
36
Table of Contents
successfully the various components of such arrangements, which may
include fulfillment, customer service, inventory management, tax collection,
payment processing, licensing of third party software, hardware, and content,
and engaging third parties to perform hosting and other services, these
initiatives may not be viable. The amount of compensation we receive under
certain of these agreements is dependent on the volume of sales that the other
company makes. Therefore, if the other business's Website or product or
services offering is not successful, we may not receive all of the compensation
we are otherwise due under the agreement or may not be able to maintain the
agreement. Moreover, we may not be able to succeed in our plans to enter into
additional commercial relationships and strategic alliances on favorable terms.
As our commercial agreements expire or otherwise terminate, we may be
unable to renew or replace these agreements on comparable terms, or at all. In
the past, we amended several of our commercial agreements to reduce future cash
proceeds to be received by us, shorten the term of our commercial agreements,
or both. Some of our agreements involve high margin services, such as marketing
and promotional agreements, and as such agreements expire they may be replaced,
if at all, by agreements involving lower margin services. In addition, several
past commercial agreements were with companies that experienced business
failures and were unable to meet their obligations to us. We may in the future
enter into further amendments of these agreements or encounter other parties
that have difficulty meeting their contractual obligations to us, which could
adversely affect our operating results.
In addition, our present and future third-party services agreements, other
commercial agreements, joint ventures, investments, and business combinations
create risks such as:
In the past, we have entered into commercial agreements with other
companies, including strategic alliances whereby we perform certain e-commerce
services, and in exchange for our services we received cash, equity securities
of these companies, and/or additional benefits, such as Website traffic. The
amount of compensation we receive under certain of these agreements is
dependent on the volume of sales made by the other company. In some cases, we
have also made separate investments in the other company by making a cash
payment in exchange for equity securities of that company. We may make similar
investments in the future. To the extent we have received equity securities as
compensation, fluctuations in the value of such securities will affect our
ultimate realization of amounts we have received as compensation for services.
In the past, we amended several of our commercial agreements to reduce
future cash proceeds to be received by us, shorten the term of our commercial
agreements, or both. We may in the future enter into further amendments of our
commercial agreements. Although these amendments did not affect the amount of
unearned revenue previously recorded by us (if any), the timing of revenue
recognition of these recorded unearned amounts has been changed to correspond
with the terms of the amended agreements. To the extent we believe any such
amendments cause or may cause the compensation to be received under an
agreement to no longer be fixed or determinable, we limit our revenue
recognition to amounts received, excluding any future amounts not deemed fixed
or determinable. As future amounts are subsequently received, such amounts are
incorporated into our revenue recognition over the remaining term of the
agreement.
Our investments in equity securities are included in "Marketable
securities" and "Other equity investments" on our
consolidated balance sheets. We regularly
review all of our investments in public and private companies for
other-than-temporary declines in fair value. When we determine that the decline
in fair value of an investment below our accounting basis is
other-than-temporary, we reduce the carrying value of the securities we hold
and record a loss in the amount of any such decline. In recent years,
securities of companies in the Internet and e-commerce industries have
experienced significant difficulties. We may conclude in future quarters that
the fair values of our investments have experienced additional
other-than-temporary declines. As of June 30, 2003, our recorded basis in
equity securities was $17 million, including $4 million classified as
"Marketable securities" and $13 million classified as "Other equity
investments."
37
Table of Contents
We expect a disproportionate amount of our net sales to be realized during
the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. If we do not stock popular products in
sufficient amounts and fail to meet customer demand, it could significantly
affect our revenue and our future growth. If we overstock products, we may be
required to take significant inventory markdowns or write-offs, which could
reduce gross profits. A failure to optimize inventory in our fulfillment
network will harm our shipping margins by requiring us to make partial
shipments from one or more locations. We may experience a decline in our
shipping margins due to complimentary upgrades, split-shipments, and additional
long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely delivery, especially for the
holiday season. If the other businesses on whose behalf we perform inventory
fulfillment services deliver product to our fulfillment centers in excess of
forecasts, we may be unable to secure sufficient storage space and may be
unable to optimize our fulfillment centers. If too many customers access our
Websites within a short period of time due to increased holiday or other
demand, we may experience system interruptions that make our Websites
unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce
the volume of goods we sell and the attractiveness of our products and
services. In addition, we may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment
centers during these peak periods and third parties that provide fulfillment
services to our customers may be unable to meet the seasonal demand. Finally,
we, along with our customer service outsourcers, may be unable to adequately
staff customer service centers.
We generally have payment terms with our vendors that extend beyond the
amount of time necessary to collect proceeds from our customers. As a result of
holiday sales, at December 31 of each year, our cash, cash
equivalents, and
marketable securities balances reach their highest level (other than as a
result of cash flows provided by investing and financing activities). This
operating cycle results in a corresponding increase in accounts payable. Our
accounts payable balance will decline during the first three months following
year-end, which will result in a decline in the amount of cash, cash
equivalents, and marketable securities on hand.
Due to our limited operating history, our evolving business model and the
unpredictability of our industry, we may not be able to accurately forecast our
rate of growth. We base our current and future expense levels and our
investment plans on estimates of future net sales and rate of growth. Our
expenses and investments are to a large extent fixed. We may not be able to
adjust our spending quickly enough if our net sales fall short of our
expectations.
Our revenue and operating profit growth depends on the continued growth of
demand for the products offered by us or our sellers, and our business is
affected by general economic and business conditions throughout the world. A
softening of demand, whether caused by changes in consumer preferences or a
weakening of the U.S. or global economies, may result in decreased revenue or
growth. Terrorist attacks and armed hostilities create economic and consumer
uncertainty that could adversely affect our revenue or growth. Such events
could create delays in, and increase the cost of, product shipments to and from
us, which may decrease demand. Revenue growth may not be sustainable and our
company-wide percentage growth rate may decrease in the future.
Our net sales and operating results will also fluctuate for many other
reasons, including:
38
Table of Contents
Finally, both seasonal fluctuations in Internet usage and traditional
retail seasonality are likely to affect our business. Internet usage generally
slows during the summer months, and sales in almost all of our product groups,
particularly toys and electronics, usually increase significantly in the fourth
calendar quarter of each year.
The results of operations of our internationally-focused Websites are
exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the
applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into U.S.
Dollars upon consolidation. As exchange rates vary, net sales and other
operating results, when translated, may differ materially from expectations.
In addition, our 6.875% PEACS are denominated in Euros, not U.S. Dollars.
When we periodically remeasure the principal of the 6.875% PEACS based on
fluctuations in the Euro/U.S. Dollar exchange ratio, we will record non-cash
gains or losses in "Remeasurement of 6.875% PEACS and
other" on our consolidated statements
of operations. Furthermore, we have invested some of the proceeds from the
6.875% PEACS in Euro-denominated cash equivalents and marketable securities.
Accordingly, if the U.S. Dollar strengthens compared to the Euro, cash
equivalents and marketable securities balances, when translated, may be
materially less than expected and vice versa.
We have rapidly and significantly expanded our operations and will
endeavor to expand further to pursue growth of our product and service
offerings and customer base. Such growth will continue to place a significant
strain on our management, operational, and financial resources. We also need to
train and manage our employee base. Our current and planned personnel, systems,
procedures, and controls may not be adequate to support and effectively manage
our future operations. We may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate, and
manage required personnel, which may limit our growth.
In addition, we do not expect to benefit in our newer market segments from
the first-to-market advantage that we experienced in the online book channel.
Our gross profits in our newer business activities may be lower than in our
older business activities. In addition, we may have limited or no experience in
new product and service activities and our customers may not favorably receive
our new businesses. To the extent we pursue strategic alliances to facilitate
new product or service activities, the alliances may not be successful. If any
of this were to occur, it could damage our reputation and negatively affect
revenue growth.
We depend on the continued services and performance of our senior
management and other key personnel, particularly Jeffrey P. Bezos, our
President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. We do not have
"key person" life insurance policies. The loss of any of our executive officers
or other key employees could harm our business.
Customer access to our Websites directly affects the volume of goods we
sell and the services we offer and thus affects our net sales. We experience
occasional system interruptions that make our Websites unavailable or prevent
us from efficiently fulfilling orders or providing services to third parties,
which may reduce our net sales and the attractiveness of our products and
services. To prevent system interruptions, we continually need to add
additional software and hardware and upgrade our systems and network
infrastructure to accommodate both increased traffic on our Websites and
increased sales volume.
Our computer and communications systems and operations could be damaged or
interrupted by fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins,
earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God, computer viruses, physical
or electronic break-ins, and similar events or disruptions. Any of these events
could cause system interruption, delays, and loss of critical data, and could
prevent us from accepting and fulfilling customer orders. Should this occur, it
would make our product offerings less attractive to our customers and our
service offerings less attractive to third parties. While we do have backup
systems for certain aspects of our operations, our systems are not fully
redundant and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all
eventualities. In addition, we may have inadequate insurance coverage or
insurance limits to compensate us for losses from a major interruption. If any
of this were to occur, it could damage our reputation and be expensive to
remedy.
39
Table of Contents
We plan, over time, to continue to expand our reach in international
market segments. We have relatively little experience in purchasing, marketing,
and distributing products or services for these market segments and may not
benefit from any first-to-market advantages. It is costly to establish
international facilities and operations, promote our brand internationally and
develop localized Websites, stores, and other systems. We may not succeed in
these efforts. Our net sales from international market segments may not offset
the expense of establishing and maintaining the related operations and,
therefore, these operations may not be profitable on a sustained basis.
Our international sales and related operations are subject to a number of
risks inherent in selling abroad, including, but not limited to, risks with
respect to:
As the international e-commerce channel continues to grow, competition
will likely intensify. Local companies may have a substantial competitive
advantage because of their greater understanding of, and focus on, the local
customer, as well as their more established local brand name recognition. In
addition, governments in foreign jurisdictions may regulate e-commerce or other
online services in such areas as content, privacy, network security, copyright,
encryption, taxation, or distribution. We may not be able to hire, train,
retain, motivate, and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth in
international market segments.
We are exposed to significant inventory risks as a result of seasonality,
new product launches, rapid changes in product cycles and changes in consumer
tastes with respect to our products. In order to be successful, we must
accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking or under-stocking
products. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the
time inventory is ordered and the date of sale. In addition, when we begin
selling a new product, it is particularly difficult to forecast product demand
accurately. A failure to optimize inventory within our fulfillment network will
harm our shipping margins by requiring us to make split shipments from one or
more locations, complimentary upgrades, and additional long-zone shipments
necessary to ensure timely delivery. As a result of our Merchants@ program
relationships with Toysrus.com, Babiesrus.com, Target, and other companies,
these parties identify, buy, manage, and bear the financial risk of inventory
obsolescence for their corresponding stores and merchandise. As a result, if
any of these parties fail to forecast product demand or optimize inventory, we
would receive reduced service fees under the agreements and our business and
reputation could be harmed.
The acquisition of certain types of inventory, or inventory from certain
sources, may require significant lead-time and prepayment, and such inventory
may not be returnable. We carry a broad selection and significant inventory
levels of certain products, such as consumer electronics, and we may be unable
to sell products in sufficient quantities or during the relevant selling
seasons.
Our ability to receive inbound inventory efficiently or ship completed
orders to customers may be negatively affected by a number of factors,
including dependence on a limited number of shipping companies, inclement
weather, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, labor disputes, acts of war or
terrorism, or acts of God.
40
Table of Contents
Any one of the inventory risk factors set forth above may adversely affect
our operating results.
If we do not successfully operate our fulfillment centers, it could
significantly limit our ability to meet customer demand. Because it is
difficult to predict sales volume, we may not manage our facilities in an
optimal way, which may result in excess or insufficient inventory, warehousing,
fulfillment, and distribution capacity. In addition, third parties either
drop-ship or otherwise fulfill an increasing portion of our customers' orders,
and we are increasingly reliant on the reliability, quality, and future
procurement of their services. Finally, under some of our commercial
agreements, we maintain the inventory of other companies in our fulfillment
centers, thereby increasing the complexity of tracking inventory in and
operating our fulfillment centers. Our failure to properly handle such
inventory or the inability or failure of these other companies to accurately
forecast product demand would result in unexpected costs and other harm to our
business and reputation.
We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress,
trade secrets, proprietary technology, and similar intellectual property as
critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent law,
trade secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our
employees, customers, partners, and others to protect our proprietary rights.
Effective trademark, service mark, copyright, patent, and trade secret
protection may not be available in every country in which our products and
services are made available online.
We also may not be able to acquire or maintain appropriate domain names in
all countries in which we do business. Furthermore, regulations governing
domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. We
may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are
similar to, infringe upon or diminish the value of our trademarks and other
proprietary rights.
Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is inherently
difficult, and we may not be able to determine the existence or extent of any
such unauthorized use. The protection of our intellectual property may require
the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, we
cannot be certain that the steps we take to protect our intellectual property
will adequately protect our rights or that others will not independently
develop or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology or other
intellectual property rights.
Third parties that license our proprietary rights may take actions that
diminish the value of our proprietary rights or reputation. In addition, the
steps we take to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate and third
parties may infringe or misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks, trade dress,
patents, and similar proprietary rights. Other parties may claim that we
infringed their proprietary rights. We have been subject to, and expect to
continue to be subject to claims, and legal proceedings regarding alleged
infringement by us of the patents, trademarks, and other intellectual property
rights of third parties. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, may result in
the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions
against us or the imposition of damages that we must pay. We may need to obtain
licenses from third parties who allege that we have infringed their rights, but
such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. In
addition, we may not be able to obtain or utilize on terms which are favorable
to us, or at all, licenses or other rights with respect to intellectual
property we do not own in providing e-commerce services to other businesses and
individuals under commercial agreements.
We have a relatively short operating history and, as an e-commerce
company, we have a rapidly evolving and unpredictable business model. The
trading price of our common stock fluctuates significantly. Trading prices of
our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors,
such as:
41
Table of Contents
Any of these events may cause our stock price to rise or fall and may
adversely affect our business and financing opportunities.
Future volatility in our stock price could force us to increase our cash
compensation to employees or grant larger stock awards than we have
historically, which could hurt our operating results or reduce the percentage
ownership of our existing stockholders, or both. In the first quarter of 2001,
we offered a limited non-compulsory exchange of employee stock options. This
option exchange offer resulted in variable accounting treatment for certain of
our stock options. Additionally, all options granted on or after January 1,
2003 are subject to variable accounting treatment. Variable accounting
treatment will result in unpredictable stock-based compensation expense
dependent on fluctuations in quoted prices for our common stock. In late 2002,
we implemented a restricted stock unit plan, which will be our primary vehicle
for stock-based compensation going forward. Restricted stock and restricted
stock units are measured at fair value on the date of grant based on the number
of shares granted and the quoted price of the common stock, which will be
recognized as compensation expense over the corresponding service term.
We are subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as
regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Such
existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet
or other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, user
privacy, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts,
consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband
residential Internet access, and the characteristics and quality of products
and services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as
property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel, and personal privacy apply to
the Internet and e-commerce. Unfavorable resolution of these issues may harm
our business. In addition, many jurisdictions currently regulate "auctions" and
"auctioneers" and may regulate online auction services. Jurisdictions may also
regulate consumer-to-consumer fixed price online markets, like zShops and
certain aspects of Amazon Marketplace. This could, in turn, diminish the demand
for our products and services and increase our cost of doing business.
In accordance with current industry practice, we do not collect sales
taxes or other taxes with respect to shipments of most of our goods into states
other than Washington and North Dakota. Under some of our commercial
agreements, the other company is the seller of record of the applicable
merchandise and we are obligated to collect sales tax in most states in
accordance with that company's instructions. We may enter into additional
strategic alliances requiring similar tax collection obligations. We collect
Value Added Tax, or VAT, for products that are ordered on ,
, and and delivered in European Union, or EU, member
countries. As of July 1, 2003, we began collecting VAT with respect to certain
of our "electronically supplied services," including digital downloads and
marketplace services, provided to certain EU residents. We also collect
Japanese consumption tax for products that are ordered on and
delivered in Japan. In addition, Canadian consumption taxes are collected on
sales of products that are ordered on and delivered in Canada.
Our fulfillment center and customer service center networks, and any future
expansion of those networks, along with other aspects of our evolving business,
may result in additional sales and other tax obligations. One or more states or
foreign countries may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations
on out-of-jurisdiction companies which engage in e-commerce. A successful
assertion by one or more states or foreign countries that we should collect
sales or other taxes on the sale of merchandise or services could result in
substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability to compete
with traditional retailers, and otherwise harm our business.
Currently, decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court restrict the imposition of
obligations to collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect to
sales made over the Internet. However, a number of states, as well as the U.S.
Congress, have been considering various initiatives that could limit or
supersede the Supreme Court's position regarding sales and use taxes on
Internet sales. If any of these
42
Table of Contents
initiatives addressed the Supreme Court's constitutional concerns and
resulted in a reversal of its current position, we could be required to collect
sales and use taxes in states other than Washington and North Dakota. The
imposition by state and local governments of various taxes upon Internet
commerce could create administrative burdens for us and could decrease our
future sales.
Although we continue to increase our direct purchasing from manufacturers,
we source a significant amount of inventory from relatively few vendors.
However, no vendor accounts for 10% or more of our inventory purchases. We do
not have long-term contracts or arrangements with most of our vendors to
guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms, or the
extension of credit limits. If our current vendors were to stop selling
merchandise to us on acceptable terms, we may not be able to acquire
merchandise from other suppliers in a timely and efficient manner and on
acceptable terms.
Some of our products, such as tools, hardware, computers, cell phones,
kitchen and housewares, and other products, may expose us to product liability
claims relating to personal injury, death, or property damage caused by such
products, and may require us to take actions such as product recalls. Certain
businesses and individuals also may sell products that may increase our
exposure to product liability claims, such as if these sellers do not have
sufficient resources to protect themselves from such claims. Although we
maintain liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be
adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to
be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. In addition,
some of our vendor agreements with our suppliers do not indemnify us from
product liability.
A fundamental requirement for e-commerce is the secure transmission of
confidential information over public networks. Although we have developed
systems and processes that are designed to protect consumer information and
prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches,
failure to mitigate such fraud or breaches may adversely affect our operating
results.
The law relating to the liability of providers of online payment services
is currently unsettled. In addition, we are aware that governmental agencies
have investigated the provision of online payment services and could require
changes in the way this business is conducted. We guarantee payments made
through Amazon Payments up to certain limits for buyers, and
we may be unable to prevent users of Amazon Payments from fraudulently
collecting payments when goods may not be shipped to a buyer. Our liability
risk will increase if a larger fraction of our sellers use Amazon Payments. Any
costs we incur as a result of liability because of our guarantee of payments
made through Amazon Payments or otherwise could harm our business. In addition,
the functionality of Amazon Payments depends on certain third-party vendors
delivering services. If these vendors are unable or unwilling to provide
services, Amazon Payments will not be viable (and our businesses that use
Amazon Payments may not be viable).
Technology in the e-commerce industry changes rapidly. We may not be able
to adapt quickly enough to changing customer requirements and preferences and
industry standards. Competitors often introduce new products and services with
new technologies. These changes and the emergence of new industry standards and
practices could render our existing Websites and proprietary technology
obsolete.
Consumer use of the Internet as a medium for commerce is a recent
phenomenon and is subject to a high level of uncertainty. While the number of
Internet users has been rising, the Internet infrastructure may not expand fast
enough to meet the increased levels of demand. If use of the Internet as a
medium for commerce does not continue to grow or grows at a slower rate than we
anticipate, our sales would be lower than expected and our business would be
harmed.
43
Table of Contents
We may be unable to prevent users of our Merchants@ program, Merchant.com
program, and Amazon Marketplace, Auctions, and zShops services from selling
unlawful goods, or from selling goods in an unlawful manner. We may face civil
or criminal liability for unlawful and fraudulent activities by our users under
U.S. laws and the laws and regulations of other countries. In addition, if
we are unsuccessful in preventing our users from providing content that is
either illegal or which violates the proprietary rights of others, it may
result in liability to us. Any costs we incur as a result of liability relating
to the sale of unlawful goods, the unlawful sale of goods, the fraudulent
receipt of goods or the fraudulent collection of payments could harm our
business. In running our Merchants@ program, Merchant.com program, Amazon
Marketplace, Auctions, and zShops services, we rely on sellers to make accurate
representations and provide reliable delivery, and on buyers to pay the agreed
purchase price. We do not take responsibility for delivery of payment or goods
and, while we can suspend or terminate the accounts of users who fail to
fulfill their delivery obligations, we cannot require users to make payments or
deliver goods. We do not compensate users who believe they have been defrauded
by other users except through our guarantee program. Under our guarantee
program, fraudulent activities by our users, such as the fraudulent collection of payments, may create liability for us.
Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk
We are exposed to market risk for the effect of interest rate changes,
foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of our
investments.
Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosure about
market risk is set forth below and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Liquidity and Capital
Resources."
Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates
primarily to our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. All of our cash
equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are designated as
available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented at fair value on our balance
sheets. We generally invest our excess cash in A-rated or higher short- to
intermediate-term fixed income securities and money market mutual funds. Fixed
rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a
rise in interest rates, and we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell
securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates.
At June 30, 2003, we had long-term debt of $2.07 billion primarily
associated with our 6.875% PEACS and 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes,
which are due in 2010 and 2009. The market
value of our long-term debt will fluctuate with movements of interest rates,
increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods
of increasing rates of interest. Based upon quoted market prices, the fair
value of the 6.875% PEACS was $786 million and $531 million at June 30, 2003
and December 31, 2002, and the fair value of the 4.75% Convertible Subordinated
Notes was $1.18 billion and $925 million at June 30, 2003 and December 31,
2002.
During the three months ended June 30, 2003, net sales from our
International segment (consisting of , ,
, and ) accounted for 36% of our consolidated
revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from these Websites, as
well as those relating to , are denominated in the functional
currencies of the corresponding Websites. The functional currency of our
subsidiaries that either operate or support these Websites is the same as the
corresponding local currency. Results of operations from our foreign
subsidiaries and our subsidiaries that operate our internationally focused Websites are exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations as the financial results of
these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation at
average rates prevailing during the year. As exchange rates vary, net sales and
other operating results, when translated, may differ materially from
expectations. During the three months ended June 30, 2003, International
segment revenues improved $54 million and overall results from operations
improved $3 million in comparison with the same period in the prior year due to
fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
At June 30, 2003, we were also exposed to foreign exchange risk related to
Euro-denominated cash equivalents and marketable securities ("Euro
Investments"), as well as our 6.875% PEACS. At June 30, 2003, the Euro
Investments, classified as available-for-
44
Table of Contents
sale, had a balance of 40 million Euros ($46 million, based on the
exchange rate as of June 30, 2003). Because we recently terminated our Euro
Currency Swap, we have additional interest expense exposure to fluctuations in
foreign exchange rates. Our 6.875% PEACS have an outstanding principal balance
of 690 million Euros ($792 million, based on the exchange rate as of June 30,
2003). Based on the outstanding Euro Investment balance at June 30, 2003, an
assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% strengthening of the U.S. Dollar in relation to the
Euro would result in a corresponding decline in the total fair value of such
investments of approximately $2 million, $5 million, and $9 million. Based on
the outstanding 6.875% PEACS's principal balance of
690 million Euros at June 30, 2003, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% weakening of the U.S. Dollar in relation
to the Euro would result in corresponding currency losses of
approximately $40 million, $79 million, and $158 million, recorded to "Remeasurement of 6.875%
PEACS and other."
As of June 30, 2003, our recorded basis in equity securities was $17
million, including $4 million classified as "Marketable securities" and $13
million classified as "Other equity investments." We regularly review the
carrying value of our investments and identify and record losses when events
and circumstances indicate that such declines in the fair value of such assets
below our accounting basis are other-than-temporary. During the three and six
months ended June 30, 2003, and the year ended December 31, 2002, we recorded
other-than-temporary impairment losses totaling $2 million and $8 million to
write-down certain of our equity investments to fair value. The fair values of
our investments are subject to significant fluctuations due to volatility of
the stock market and changes in general economic conditions. Based on the fair
value of the publicly-traded equity securities we held at June 30, 2003 of $84
million (recorded basis of $8 million), an assumed 15%, 30%, and 50% adverse
change to market prices of these securities would result in a corresponding
decline in total fair value of approximately $13 million,
$25 million, and $42 million.
Item 4. Controls and Procedures
We
carried out an evaluation required by the 1934
Act, under the supervision and with the participation of our principal
executive officer and principal financial officer, of the effectiveness of the
design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of
the period covered by this report. Based on this evaluation, our principal
executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure
controls and procedures are effective in timely alerting them to material
information required to be included in our periodic SEC reports. It should be
noted that the design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain
assumptions, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in
achieving its stated goals.
During the most recent fiscal quarter, there has not occurred any change
in our internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected,
or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over
financial reporting.
PART II. OTHER INFORMATION
Item 1. Legal Proceedings
On April 12, 2001, we received a request from the SEC staff for the
voluntary production of documents and information concerning, among other
things, previously reported sales of our common stock by our Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer, Jeffrey P. Bezos, on February 2 and 5, 2001. We have cooperated
fully with the SEC staff's inquiry.
A number of purported class action complaints were filed by holders of our equity and debt securities against us, our directors, and certain of our
senior officers during 2001, in the United States District Court for the
Western District of Washington, alleging violations of the 1933 Act and/or the
1934 Act. On October 5, 2001, plaintiffs in the 1934 Act cases filed a
consolidated amended complaint alleging that we, together with certain of our
officers and directors and certain third parties, made false or misleading
statements during the period from October 29, 1998 through July 23, 2001
concerning our business, financial condition and results, inventories, future
prospects, and strategic alliance transactions. The 1933 Act complaint alleges
that the defendants made false or misleading statements in connection with our
February 2000 offering of the 6.875% PEACS. The complaints seek recissionary
and/or compensatory damages and injunctive relief against all defendants. We
dispute the allegations of wrongdoing in these complaints and intend to
vigorously defend ourselves in these matters.
On October 29, 2002, Gary Gerlinger, individually and on behalf of all
other similarly situated consumers in the United States who, during the period
from August 1, 2001 to the present, purchased books online from either
Amazon.com or Borders.com, instituted an action against us and Borders in the
United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The
complaint alleges that the agreement pursuant to which an affiliate of
Amazon.com operates Borders.com as a co-branded site violates federal
anti-trust laws, California statutory law, and the common law of unjust
enrichment. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages,
45
Table of Contents
including treble damages or statutory damages where applicable, attorneys'
fees, costs, and disbursements, disgorgement of all sums obtained by allegedly
wrongful acts, interest, and declaratory relief. We dispute the plaintiff's
allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this
matter.
In March 2003, we were served with a complaint filed in the
Chancery Court of Davidson County, Tennessee, by a private litigant purportedly
on behalf of the State of Tennessee under the Tennessee False Claims Act. The
complaint alleges that we (along with other companies with which we have
commercial agreements) wrongfully failed to collect and remit sales and use
taxes for sales of personal property to customers in Tennessee and knowingly
created records and statements falsely stating we were not required to collect
or remit such taxes. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, unpaid taxes,
interest, attorneys' fees, civil penalties of up to $10,000 per violation, and
treble damages under Tennessee's False Claims Act. In July 2003,
we received a similar complaint filed in Cook County District Court,
Nevada, by the same private litigant alleging similar claims with
respect to sales and use taxes for sales of personal property to
customers in Nevada. We are aware
that the private litigant in this case has filed similar actions against other
retailers in other states, and it is possible that we have been or will be
named in similar cases in other states as well. We do not believe that we are
liable under existing laws and regulations for any failure to collect sales or
other taxes relating to Internet sales and intend to vigorously defend
ourselves in these matters.
On
July 17, 2003, Pinpoint Inc. filed a complaint for patent
infringement in the United States District Court for the Northern
District of Illinois against us and several other companies with
which we have commercial agreements. The complaint alleges that our
personalization technology infringes several patents obtained by
Pinpoint and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages in an amount
no less than a reasonable royalty, prejudgment interest, and
attorneys' fees against all defendants We dispute the allegations of
wrongdoing in this complaint and intend to vigorously defend
ourselves in this matter.
Depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution of some
or all of these matters could materially affect our business, future results of
operations, financial position, or cash flows in a particular period.
From time to time, we are subject to other legal proceedings and claims in
the ordinary course of business, including claims of alleged infringement of
trademarks, copyrights, patents, and other intellectual property rights. We
currently are not aware of any such legal proceedings or claims that we
believes will have, individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect
on our business, financial condition, or operating results.
Item 2. Changes in
Securities and Use of Proceeds
None.
Item 3. Defaults Upon
Senior Securities
None.
Item 4. Submission of
Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
Our annual meeting of stockholders was held on May 28, 2003. The following
nominees were elected as directors, each to hold office until his or her
successor is elected and qualified, by the vote set forth below:
46
Table of Contents
A shareholder proposal regarding use of stock price indexed executive stock
options was not adopted by the margins indicated:
Item 5. Other
Information
None.
Item 6. Exhibits and
Reports on Form 8-K
(a) Exhibits
(b) Reports on
Form 8-K
On April 10, 2003, we filed three 8-Ks, announcing a change in our financial
segments, announcing that William B. Gordon was elected to our Board, and
filing our 2002 letter to shareholders, respectively.
On April 25, 2003, we filed a Form 8-K announcing our first quarter 2003
financial results.
47
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 22, 2003
48
Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX
49