.
3
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(in millions, except per share data) (unaudited)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
4
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(in millions) (unaudited)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
5
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in millions, except per share data)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
6
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited)
Note 1 -- Accounting Policies
Unaudited Interim Financial Information
We have prepared the accompanying consolidated financial statements pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange
Commission (the "SEC") for interim financial reporting. These consolidated financial statements are unaudited and, in our opinion, include all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments and accruals necessary for a fair
presentation of our consolidated balance sheets, operating results, and cash flows for the periods presented. Operating results for the periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for 2013 due to seasonal and
other factors. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") have been omitted in accordance with
the rules and regulations of the SEC. These consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in Item 8 of Part II, "Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data," of our 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Amazon.com, Inc., its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and those entities in which
we have a variable interest and are the primary beneficiary (collectively, the "Company"). Intercompany balances and transactions between consolidated entities are eliminated.
Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related
disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited to, determining the selling price of products and services in multiple element revenue arrangements and
determining the lives of these elements, incentive discount offers, sales returns, vendor funding, stock-based compensation, income taxes, valuation and impairment of investments, inventory valuation and inventory purchase commitments,
collectability of receivables, valuation of acquired intangibles and goodwill, depreciable lives of property and equipment, internally-developed software, acquisition purchase price allocations, investments in equity interests, and contingencies.
Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Earnings per Share
Basic earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares. Diluted earnings per share is calculated
using our weighted-average outstanding common shares including the dilutive effect of stock awards as determined under the treasury stock method. In periods when we recognize a net loss, we exclude the impact of outstanding stock awards from the
diluted loss per share calculation as their inclusion would have an antidilutive effect. The following table shows the
calculation of diluted shares (in millions):
Equity-method investments
Equity investments, including our 29% investment in LivingSocial, are accounted for using the equity method of accounting if the
investment gives us the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over an investee. The total of our investments in equity-method investees, including identifiable intangible assets, deferred tax liabilities, and goodwill, is
included within "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets. Our share of the earnings or losses as reported by equity-method investees, amortization of the related intangible assets, and related gains or losses, if any, are
classified as "Equity-method investment activity, net of tax" on our consolidated statements of operations. Our share of the net income or loss of our equity-method investees includes operating and non-operating gains and
charges, which can have a significant impact on our reported equity-method investment activity and the carrying value of those investments. In the event that net losses of the investee reduce our equity-method investment carrying amount to zero,
additional net losses may be recorded if other investments in the investee, not accounted for under the equity method, are at-risk even if we have not committed to provide financial support to the investee. We regularly evaluate these investments,
which are not carried at fair value, for other-than-temporary impairment. We also consider whether our equity-method investments generate sufficient cash flows from their operating or financing activities to meet their obligations and repay their
liabilities when they come due.
7
Table of Contents
We record purchases, including incremental purchases, of shares in equity-method investees
at cost. Reductions in our ownership percentage of an investee, including through dilution, are generally valued at fair value, with the difference between fair value and our recorded cost reflected as a gain or loss in our equity-method investment
activity. In the event we no longer have the ability to exercise significant influence over an equity-method investee, we would discontinue accounting for the investment under the equity method.
Note 2 -- Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities
As of March 31, 2013, and December 31, 2012, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities primarily
consisted of cash, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, AAA-rated money market funds, and other investment grade securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are recorded at fair value. Fair value is defined as the price that
would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. To increase the comparability of fair value measures, the following hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to
valuation methodologies used to measure fair value: Level 1--Valuations based on quoted prices for identical
assets and liabilities in active markets. Level 2--Valuations based on observable inputs other than quoted
prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be
corroborated by observable market data. Level 3--Valuations based on unobservable inputs reflecting our own
assumptions, consistent with reasonably available assumptions made by other market participants. These valuations require significant judgment. We measure the fair value of money market funds and equity securities based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. All other financial instruments were valued either based
on recent trades of securities in inactive markets or based on quoted market prices of similar instruments and other significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data. We did not hold any cash, cash equivalents, or marketable
securities categorized as Level 3 as of March 31, 2013 or December 31, 2012. The following table summarizes, by
major security type, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis and are categorized using the fair value hierarchy (in millions):
8
Table of Contents
The following table summarizes the contractual maturities of our cash equivalent and
marketable fixed-income securities as of March 31, 2013 (in millions):
Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have certain
prepayment conditions.
Note 3 -- Commitments and Contingencies
Commitments We have entered into non-cancellable operating, capital, and financing leases for equipment and office, fulfillment center, and data center facilities. Rental expense under operating lease agreements was
$167 million and $114 million for Q1 2013 and Q1 2012. The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments,
excluding open orders for purchases that support normal operations, as of March 31, 2013 (in millions):
Pledged Securities As of March 31, 2013, and December 31, 2012, we have pledged or otherwise restricted $176 million and $99 million of our cash and marketable securities as collateral for standby and trade
letters of credit, guarantees, debt related to our international operations, as well as real estate leases. Legal
Proceedings The Company is involved from time to time in claims, proceedings, and litigation, including the matters
described in Item 8 of Part II, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data -- Note 8 -- Commitments and Contingencies -- Legal Proceedings" of our 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K, as supplemented by the following:
In November 2007, an Austrian copyright collection society, Austro-Mechana, filed lawsuits against several Amazon.com EU
subsidiaries in the Commercial Court of Vienna, Austria and in the District Court of Munich, Germany seeking to collect a tariff on blank digital media sold by our EU-based retail websites to customers located in Austria. In July 2008, the German
court stayed the German case pending a final decision in the Austrian case. In July 2010, the Austrian court ruled in favor of Austro-Mechana and ordered us to report all sales of products to which the tariff potentially applies for a
determination of damages. We contested Austro-Mechana's claim and in September 2010 commenced an appeal in the Commercial Court of Vienna. We lost this appeal and in March
9
Table of Contents
2011 commenced an appeal in the Supreme Court of Austria. In October 2011, the Austrian Supreme Court referred the case to the European Court of Justice. In December 2012, a German copyright
collection society, Zentralstelle fur private Uberspielungsrechte (ZPU), filed a complaint against several Amazon.com EU subsidiaries in the District Court of Luxembourg seeking to collect a tariff on blank digital media sold by the
Amazon.de retail website to customers located in Germany. In January 2013, a Belgian copyright collection society, AUVIBEL, filed a complaint against an Amazon.com EU subsidiary in the Court of First Instance of Brussels, Belgium, seeking to collect
a tariff on blank digital media sold by the Amazon.fr retail website to customers located in Belgium. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these matters.
In November 2010, Kelora Systems, LLC filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the
Western District of Wisconsin. The complaint alleged that our website infringes a patent owned by Kelora Systems purporting to cover a "Method and system for executing a guided parametric search" (U.S. Patent No. 6,275,821) and sought
monetary damages, costs, attorneys' fees, and injunctive relief. In March 2011, the case was transferred to the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. In August 2011, Kelora filed an amended complaint adding
Amazon subsidiaries Audible and Zappos as defendants. In May 2012, the lawsuit was dismissed with prejudice on summary judgment. In June 2012, Kelora appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, which affirmed the
dismissal in March 2013. In January 2011, Rovi Corporation, Rovi Guides, Inc., United Video Properties, Inc., TV Guide
Online, LLC, and TV Guide Online, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and IMDb.com, Inc. in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The plaintiffs alleged, among other things, that the use of links on instant video
web pages to DVD and Blu-ray discs; instant video preview, TV season, and season pass options; IMDb TV listings (localized listings); and links on IMDb title pages to DVD and Blue-ray pages on Amazon's website infringed one or more of U.S.
Patent No. 5,988,078, entitled "Method and Apparatus for Receiving Customized Television Programming Information by Transmitting Geographic Location to a Service Provider Through a Wide-Area Network"; U.S. Patent No. 6,275,268,
entitled "Electronic Television Program Guide with Remote Product Ordering"; U.S. Patent No. 6,769,128, entitled "Electronic Television Program Guide Schedule System and Method with Data Feed Access"; U.S. Patent
No. 7,493,643, entitled "Program Guide System with Video-On-Demand Browsing"; and U.S. Patent No. 7,603,690, entitled "Interactive Television Program Guide System with Pay Program Package Promotion." The complaint
sought an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, interest, attorneys' fees, and an injunction. In August 2012, the court granted a stipulated judgment of non-infringement for U.S. Patent No. 6,769,128. In November 2012,
Rovi's damages expert opined that, if we were found to infringe the patents-in-suit and the patents were found to be valid (both of which we disputed), Amazon and its affiliates should have paid damages of approximately $40 million, subject to
enhancement. In December 2012, the court dismissed with prejudice plaintiffs' claims for infringement of U.S. Patent Nos. 5,988,078 and 7,493,643. In March 2013, the court granted a stipulated judgment of non-infringement for U.S.
Patent Nos. 7,603,690 and 6,275,268, resolving all remaining claims in Amazon's favor. The plaintiffs are expected to appeal. In April 2011, Walker Digital LLC filed several complaints against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaints allege that we infringe
several of the plaintiff's U.S. patents by, among other things, providing "cross benefits" to customers through our promotions, (U.S. Patent Nos. 7,831,470 and 7,827,056), using a customer's identified original product to offer a
substitute product (U.S. Patent No. 7,236,942), using our product recommendations and personalization features to offer complementary products together (U.S. Patent Nos. 6,601,036 and 6,138,105), enabling customers to subscribe to a delivery
schedule for products they routinely use at reduced prices (U.S. Patent No. 5,970,470), and offering personalized advertising based on customers' preferences identified using a data pattern (U.S. Patent No. 7,933,893). Another
complaint, filed in the same court in October 2011, alleges that we infringe plaintiff's U.S. Patent No. 8,041,711 by offering personalized advertising based on customer preferences that associate data with resource locators. Another
complaint, filed in the same court in February 2012, alleges that we infringe plaintiff's U.S. Patent No. 8,112,359 by using product information received from customers to identify and offer substitute products using a manufacturer
database. In January 2013, the plaintiff filed another complaint in the same court alleging that we infringe U.S. Patent No. 6,381,582 by allowing customers to make local payments for products ordered online. All of the complaints seek monetary
damages, interest, injunctive relief, costs, and attorneys' fees. In March 2013, the complaints asserting U.S. Patent Nos. 7,236,942 and 7,933,893 were voluntarily dismissed with prejudice. We dispute the remaining allegations of
wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in these matters. In May 2012, Clouding IP, LLC f/k/a/ STEC IP,
LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon Web Services LLC in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our "Elastic Compute Cloud,"
"WhisperSync," "Virtual Private Cloud," "Cloud Drive," and "Kindle Store" services infringe one or more of 11 patents: U.S. Patent Nos. 7,596,784, entitled "Method System and Apparatus for Providing
Pay-Per-Use Distributed Computing Resources"; 7,065,637, entitled "System for Configuration of Dynamic Computing Environments Using a Visual Interface"; 6,738,799, entitled "Methods and Apparatuses for File Synchronization and
Updating Using a Signature List"; 5,944,839, entitled "System and Method for Automatically Maintaining A Computer System"; 5,825,891, entitled "Key Management for Network Communication"; 5,495,607, entitled "Network
Management System Having Virtual Catalog Overview of Files Distributively Stored Across Network Domain"; 6,925,481 and 7,254,621, entitled "Technique for Enabling Remote Data Access And Manipulation From A Pervasive Device"; 6,631,449
and 6,918,014, entitled "Dynamic Distributed Data System and Method"; and 6,963,908, entitled
10
Table of Contents
"System for Transferring Customized Hardware and Software Settings from One Computer to Another Computer to Provide Personalized Operating Environments." In August 2012, Clouding
amended its complaint to also assert U.S. Patent No. 7,032,089, entitled "Replica Synchronization Using Copy-On-Read Technique," against WhisperSync. In February 2013, Clouding served its notice of accused products in which it also
identified "AWS Market Place," "AWS Storage Gateway," "Cloud Player," "DynamoDB," "Elastic Block Store (EBS)," "Elastic Load Balancing," "Elastic Map Reduce," "Relational
Database Service," "Simple Storage Service," "Simple DB," "Cloud Watch," "Kindle," and "Elastic Compute Cloud AutoScaling" as allegedly infringing. The complaint seeks an unspecified amount
of damages together with interest. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. We cannot predict the impact (if any) that any of the matters described above or in our 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K may have on our business, results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.
Because of the inherent uncertainties of such matters, including the early stage and lack of specific damage claims in many of them, we cannot estimate the range of possible losses from them (except as otherwise indicated).
See also "Note 7 -- Income Taxes."
Note 4 -- Equity-Method Investments
LivingSocial's summarized condensed financial information, as provided to us by LivingSocial, is as follows (in
millions):
As of March 31, 2013,
the book value of our equity-method investment in LivingSocial investment was $36 million. Additionally, in Q1 2013 we made a $56 million investment in LivingSocial that we have recorded as a cost method investment.
Note 5 -- Long-Term Debt
In November 2012, we issued $3.0 billion of unsecured senior notes in three tranches as described in the table below
(collectively, the "Notes"). As of March 31, 2013, and December 31, 2012, the unamortized discount on the Notes was $26 million and $27 million. We also have other long-term debt with a carrying amount, including the current
portion, of $718 million and $691 million at March 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012. The face value of our total long-term debt obligations is as follows (in millions):
The effective interest rates of the 2015, 2017, and 2022 Notes were 0.84%, 1.38%, and 2.66%. Interest on
the Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears in May and November. We may redeem the Notes at any time in whole, or from time to time, in part at specified redemption prices. We are not subject to any financial covenants under the Notes. We used the
net proceeds from the issuance of the Notes for general corporate purposes. The estimated fair value of the Notes was approximately $3.0 billion and $3.0 billion at March 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, which is based on quoted prices for
our publicly-traded debt as of that date. The other debt, including the current portion, had a weighted average interest rate
of 6.5% and 6.4% at March 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012. We used the net proceeds from the issuance of the debt to fund certain international operations. The estimated fair value of the other long-term debt, which is based on Level 2
inputs, approximated its carrying value at March 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012.
11
Table of Contents
Note 6 -- Stockholders' Equity
Stock Repurchase Activity In January 2010, our Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to $2.0 billion of our common stock with no fixed expiration. We have $763 million remaining under the $2.0 billion
repurchase program. Stock Award Activity
Common shares outstanding plus shares underlying outstanding stock awards totaled 471 million at March 31, 2013, and
470 million at December 31, 2012. These totals include all vested and unvested stock-based awards outstanding, including those awards we estimate will be forfeited. The following table summarizes our restricted stock unit activity for the
three months ended March 31, 2013 (in millions):
Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units at March 31, 2013, is as follows (in
millions):
As of March 31, 2013, there was $1.3 billion of net unrecognized compensation cost related to
unvested stock-based compensation arrangements. This compensation is recognized on an accelerated basis with approximately half of the compensation expected to be expensed in the next twelve months, and has a weighted average recognition period of
1.2 years.
Note 7 -- Income Taxes
Our tax provision or benefit from income taxes for interim periods is determined using an estimate of our annual
effective tax rate, adjusted for discrete items, if any, that are taken into account in the relevant period. Each quarter we update our estimate of the annual effective tax rate, and if our estimated tax rate changes, we make a cumulative
adjustment. Our quarterly tax provision, and our quarterly estimate of our annual effective tax rate, is subject to
significant variation due to several factors, including variability in accurately predicting our pre-tax and taxable income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, changes in how we do business, acquisitions (including
integrations) and investments, audit developments, foreign currency gains (losses), changes in law, regulations, and administrative practices, and relative changes of expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. Additionally, our
effective tax rate can be more or less volatile based on the amount of pre-tax income. For example, the impact of discrete items and non-deductible expenses on our effective tax rate is greater when our pre-tax income is lower.
In 2013, our effective tax rate will be significantly affected by the favorable impact of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions and
the adverse effect of losses incurred in certain foreign jurisdictions for which we may not realize a tax benefit. Income earned in lower tax jurisdictions is primarily related to our European operations, which are headquartered in Luxembourg.
Losses incurred in foreign jurisdictions for which we may not realize a tax benefit reduce our pre-tax income without a corresponding reduction in our tax expense, and therefore increase our effective tax rate.
During Q1 2013, we recognized an income tax benefit of $18 million, which includes $46 million of discrete tax benefits primarily
resulting from the retroactive reinstatement of the federal research and development credit that was enacted in January 2013.
12
Table of Contents
Cash paid for income taxes (net of refunds) was $86 million and $19 million in Q1 2013 and
Q1 2012. As of March 31, 2013, and December 31, 2012, gross unrecognized tax benefits (tax contingencies) were $314
million and $294 million. We expect the total amount of tax contingencies will grow in 2013. In addition, changes in state, federal, and foreign tax laws may increase our tax contingencies. The timing of the resolution of income tax
examinations is highly uncertain, and the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ from the amounts accrued. It is reasonably possible that within the next 12 months we will receive
additional assessments by various tax authorities or possibly reach resolution of income tax examinations in one or more jurisdictions. These assessments or settlements may or may not result in changes to our contingencies related to positions on
prior years' tax filings. We are under examination, or may be subject to examination, by the Internal Revenue Service
("IRS") for the calendar year 2005 or thereafter. These examinations may lead to ordinary course adjustments or proposed adjustments to our taxes or our net operating losses. As previously disclosed, we have received Notices of Proposed
Adjustment from the IRS for the 2005 and 2006 calendar years relating to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries. The IRS is seeking to increase our U.S. taxable income by an amount that would result in additional federal tax over a seven
year period beginning in 2005, totaling approximately $1.5 billion, subject to interest. To date, we have not resolved this matter administratively and, in December 2012, we petitioned the U.S. Tax Court to resolve the matter. We continue to
disagree with these IRS positions and intend to vigorously contest them. Certain of our subsidiaries are under examination or
investigation or may be subject to examination or investigation by the French Tax Administration ("FTA") for calendar year 2006 or thereafter. These examinations may lead to ordinary course adjustments or proposed adjustments to our taxes.
While we have not yet received a final assessment from the FTA, in September 2012, we received proposed tax assessment notices for calendar years 2006 through 2010 relating to the allocation of income between foreign jurisdictions. The notices
propose additional French tax of approximately $250 million, including interest and penalties through the date of the assessment. We disagree with the proposed assessment and intend to vigorously contest it. We plan to pursue all available
administrative remedies at the FTA, and if we are not able to resolve this matter with the FTA, we plan to pursue judicial remedies. We are also subject to taxation in various states and other foreign jurisdictions including China, Germany,
Japan, Luxembourg, and the United Kingdom. We are or may be subject to examination by these particular tax authorities for the calendar year 2003 and thereafter.
Note 8 -- Segment Information
We have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. We present our segment
information along the same lines that our Chief Executive Officer reviews our operating results in assessing performance and allocating resources. We allocate to segment results the operating expenses "Fulfillment," "Marketing," "Technology and content," and "General and administrative," but exclude from our
allocations the portions of these expense lines attributable to stock-based compensation. We do not allocate the line item "Other operating expense (income), net" to our segment operating results. A majority of our costs for
"Technology and content" are incurred in the United States and most of these costs are allocated to our North America segment. There are no internal revenue transactions between our reporting segments.
13
Table of Contents
Information on reportable segments and reconciliation to consolidated net income is as
follows (in millions):
Net sales of similar products and services were as follows (in millions):
14
Table of Contents
Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical
fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects, or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future,
intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management's current expectations and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons,
including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business
opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with services, the extent to which we owe income taxes, competition, management of growth, potential
fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment and data center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the degree to which the Company enters into,
maintains, and develops commercial agreements, acquisitions, and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. In addition, the current global economic climate amplifies many of these risks. These
risks and uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from management's expectations, are described in greater detail in Item 1A of Part II, "Risk
Factors." For additional information, see Item 7 of Part II, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Overview" of our 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Critical
Accounting Judgments The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a
company's critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the company's financial condition and results of operations, and which require the company to make its most difficult and subjective
judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We also have other key accounting
policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For additional information, see Item 8 of Part II, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data -- Note 1
-- Description of Business and Accounting Policies," of our 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Item 1 of Part I, "Financial Statements -- Note 1 -- Accounting Policies," of this Form 10-Q. Although we believe that
our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions.
Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in first-out ("FIFO") method, and are valued at the lower of cost or market value. This
valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of
each disposition category. These assumptions about future disposition of inventory are inherently uncertain. As a measure of
sensitivity, for every 1% of additional inventory valuation allowance at March 31, 2013, we would have recorded an additional cost of sales of approximately $55 million. Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently
when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Our annual testing date is October 1. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value
of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value or qualitative factors indicate that it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the
difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flow are based on our best estimate of future net sales and
operating expenses, based primarily on expected category expansion, pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions. Certain estimates of discounted cash flows involve businesses and geographies with limited financial history and
developing revenue models. Changes in these forecasts could significantly change the amount of impairment recorded, if any.
15
Table of Contents
During the quarter, management monitored the actual performance of the business relative to
the fair value assumptions used during our annual goodwill impairment test. For the periods presented, no triggering events were identified that required an update to our annual impairment test. As a measure of sensitivity, a 10% decrease in the
fair value of any of our reporting units as of December 31, 2012, would have had no impact on the carrying value of our goodwill. Financial and credit market volatility directly impacts our fair value measurement through our weighted average cost of capital that we use to determine our discount rate and through our stock price that
we use to determine our market capitalization. During times of volatility, significant judgment must be applied to determine whether credit or stock price changes are a short-term swing or a longer-term trend. As a measure of sensitivity, a
prolonged 20% decrease from our March 31, 2013, closing stock price would not be an indicator of possible impairment.
Stock-Based Compensation We measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize it as compensation expense over the service period for awards expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock units is
determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment for the amount that will be forfeited, and to the extent actual results or updated
estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including employee class, economic environment,
and historical experience. We update our estimated forfeiture rate quarterly. A 1% change to our estimated forfeiture rate would have had an approximately $26 million impact on our Q1 2013 operating income. Our estimated forfeiture rates at
March 31, 2013, and December 31, 2012, were 27%. We utilize the accelerated method, rather than the straight-line
method, for recognizing compensation expense. For example, over 50% of the compensation cost related to an award vesting ratably over four years is expensed in the first year. If forfeited early in the life of an award, the compensation expense
adjustment is much greater under an accelerated method than under a straight-line method. Income Taxes
We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating and
estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being
lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize the related tax benefit,
by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, by entry into new businesses and geographies and changes to our existing businesses, by acquisitions (including integrations) and investments, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and
liabilities, or by changes in the relevant tax, accounting, and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations, with a number of countries actively considering changes in this regard. In addition, we are subject
to audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax liabilities against us. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially
different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Developments in an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for
prior and subsequent periods. Recent Accounting Pronouncements
See Item 1 of Part I, "Financial Statements -- Note 1 -- Accounting Policies -- Recent Accounting
Pronouncements."
16
Table of Contents
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Cash flow information is as follows (in millions):
Our financial focus is on long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flow1. Free cash flow, a non-GAAP financial measure, was $177 million for
the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2013, compared to $1.2 billion for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2012, a decrease of 85%. See "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" below for a reconciliation of free cash flow to
cash provided by operating activities. The decrease in free cash flow for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2013, compared to the comparable prior year period, was primarily due to increased capital expenditures, including
the $1.4 billion purchase of property in December 2012, partially offset by higher operating cash flows. Operating cash flows and free cash flows can be volatile and are sensitive to many factors, including changes in working capital2, the timing and magnitude of capital expenditures, and our net
income. Working capital at any specific point in time is subject to many variables, including seasonality, inventory management and category expansion, the timing of cash receipts and payments, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in foreign
exchange rates. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents,
and marketable securities balances, which, at fair value, were $7.9 billion and $11.4 billion at March 31, 2013, and December 31, 2012. Amounts held in foreign currencies were $3.8 billion and $5.1 billion at March 31, 2013, and
December 31, 2012, and were primarily Euros, British Pounds, Japanese Yen, and Chinese Yuan. Cash provided by (used in)
operating activities was $(2.4) billion for both Q1 2013 and Q1 2012. Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our consumer, seller, and enterprise customers, advertising agreements, and our co-branded credit card
agreements, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, employee compensation (less amounts capitalized related to internal use software that are reflected as cash used in investing activities), payment processing and related
transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments on our long-term obligations. Cash received from our consumer, seller, and enterprise customers, and other activities generally corresponds to our net sales. Because consumers primarily use
credit cards to buy from us, our receivables from consumers settle quickly. The increase in operating cash flow for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2013, compared to the comparable prior year period, was primarily due to changes in
working capital and the increase in net income, excluding depreciation, amortization, and stock-based compensation. Cash
provided by (used in) investing activities corresponds with capital expenditures, including leasehold improvements, internal-use software and website development costs, cash outlays for acquisitions, investments in other companies and intellectual
property rights, and purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities. Cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $(950) million and $450 million for Q1 2013 and Q1 2012, with the variability caused primarily by changes in capital
expenditures, purchases, maturities, and sales of marketable securities and other investments, and changes in cash paid for acquisitions. Capital expenditures were $670 million and $386 million during Q1 2013 and Q1 2012, with the increases
primarily reflecting additional investments in support of continued business growth due to investments in technology infrastructure, including AWS, and additional capacity to support our fulfillment operations. We expect this trend to continue over
time. Capital expenditures included $111 million and $75 million for internal-use software and website development during Q1 2013 and Q1 2012. Stock-based compensation capitalized for internal-use software and website development costs does not
affect cash flows. We made cash payments, net of acquired cash, related to acquisition and other investment activity of $103 million and $50 million during Q1 2013 and Q1 2012.
17
Table of Contents
Cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $(157) million and $(1.0) billion for Q1
2013 and Q1 2012. Cash outflows from financing activities result from common stock repurchases, payments on obligations related to capital leases and leases accounted for as financing arrangements, and repayments of long-term debt. Payments on
obligations related to capital leases and leases accounted for as financing arrangements and repayments of long-term debt were $182 million and $153 million in Q1 2013 and Q1 2012. In Q1 2012, we repurchased $960 million of our common stock under
the $2 billion repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors. Cash inflows from financing activities primarily result from proceeds from long-term debt and tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions. Proceeds from
long-term debt and other were $25 million and $68 million in Q1 2013 and Q1 2012. Tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions are presented as financing cash flows. Cash inflows (outflows) from tax benefits related to
stock-based compensation deductions were $0 and $40 million for Q1 2013 and Q1 2012. We recorded a tax benefit of $18 million
in Q1 2013 and a tax provision of $43 million in Q1 2012. We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. Except as required under U.S. tax law, we do not provide
for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. If our intent changes or if these funds are needed for
our U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue or pay U.S. taxes on some or all of these undistributed earnings. Cash taxes paid (net of refunds) were $86 million and $19 million for Q1 2013 and Q1 2012. As of December 31, 2012, our
federal net operating loss carryforward was approximately $89 million and we had approximately $136 million of federal tax credits, potentially available to offset future tax liabilities. As we utilize our federal tax credits, we expect cash paid
for taxes to significantly increase. We endeavor to optimize our global taxes on a cash basis, rather than on a financial reporting basis. See Item 1 of Part I, "Financial Statements -- Note 3 -- Commitments and Contingencies" for additional discussion of our principal contractual commitments, as well as our pledged
securities. Purchase obligations and open purchase orders, consisting of inventory and significant non-inventory commitments, were $3.6 billion at March 31, 2013. Purchase obligations and open purchase orders are generally cancelable in full or
in part through the contractual provisions. Because of our model we are able to turn our inventory
quickly and have a cash-generating operating cycle3. On
average, our high inventory velocity means we generally collect from consumers before our payments to suppliers come due. Inventory turnover4 was 10 for Q1 2013 and Q1 2012. We expect variability in inventory turnover over time since it is affected by several
factors, including our product mix, the mix of sales by us and by other sellers, our continuing focus on in-stock inventory availability and selection of product offerings, our investment in new geographies and product lines, and the extent to
which we choose to utilize outsource fulfillment providers. We believe that cash flows generated from operations and our
cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to substantial
uncertainty. See Item 1A of Part II, "Risk Factors." We continually evaluate opportunities to sell additional equity or debt securities, obtain credit facilities, repurchase common stock, pay dividends, or repurchase, refinance, or
otherwise restructure our debt for strategic reasons or to further strengthen our financial position. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities would likely be dilutive to our shareholders. In addition, we will, from time to time,
consider the acquisition of, or investment in, complementary businesses, products, services, and technologies, which might affect our liquidity requirements or cause us to issue additional equity or debt securities. There can be no assurance that
additional lines-of-credit or financing instruments will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all.
18
Table of Contents
Results of Operations
We have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. We present our segment information along
the same lines that our Chief Executive Officer reviews our operating results in assessing performance and allocating resources. Net Sales Net sales include product and services sales. Product sales
represent revenue from the sale of products and related shipping fees and digital content where we are the seller of record. Services sales represent third-party seller fees earned (including commissions) and related shipping fees, digital content
subscriptions, and non-retail activities such as AWS. Net sales information is as follows (in millions):
Sales increased 22% in Q1 2013, compared to the comparable prior year period. Changes in currency
exchange rates impacted net sales by $(302) million for Q1 2013 and $(56) million for Q1 2012. For a discussion of the effect on sales growth of exchange rates, see "Effect of Exchange Rates" below.
North America sales grew 26% in Q1 2013 compared to the comparable prior year period. The sales growth primarily reflects increased unit
sales, including sales by marketplace sellers. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, by sales in faster growing categories such as electronics and
other general merchandise, by increased in-stock inventory availability, and by increased selection of product offerings.
International sales grew 16% in Q1 2013 compared to the comparable prior year period. The sales growth primarily reflects increased unit
sales, including sales by marketplace sellers. Increased unit sales were driven largely by our continued efforts to reduce prices for our customers, including from our shipping offers, by sales in faster growing categories such as electronics and
other general merchandise, by increased in-stock inventory availability, and by increased selection of product offerings. Additionally, changes in currency exchange rates impacted International net sales by $(301) million for Q1 2013 and by $(55)
million for Q1 2012. We expect that, over time, our International segment will represent 50% or more of our consolidated net sales.
19
Table of Contents
Supplemental Information
Supplemental information about shipping results is as follows (in millions):
We expect our net cost of shipping to continue to increase to the extent our customers accept and use our shipping offers at an
increasing rate, our product mix shifts to the electronics and other general merchandise category, we reduce shipping rates, we use more expensive shipping methods, and we offer additional services. We seek to mitigate costs of shipping over time in
part through achieving higher sales volumes, optimizing placement of fulfillment centers, negotiating better terms with our suppliers, and achieving better operating efficiencies. We believe that offering low prices to our customers is fundamental
to our future success, and one way we offer lower prices is through shipping offers.
20
Table of Contents
Net sales by similar products and services were as follows (in millions):
21
Table of Contents
Operating Expenses
Information about operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation is as follows (in millions):
Operating expenses without stock-based compensation are non-GAAP financial measures. See "Non-GAAP
Financial Measures" below. Cost of Sales Cost of sales consists of the purchase price of consumer products and digital content where we are the seller of record, including Prime Instant Video, inbound and outbound shipping charges, and packaging
supplies. Shipping charges to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory, and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. The increase in cost of sales in absolute dollars in Q1 2013, compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increased product, digital content, and shipping costs resulting from
increased sales, as well as from expansion of digital offerings. Consolidated gross profit and gross margin for each of the
periods presented were as follows:
Gross margin increased in Q1 2013 compared to the comparable prior year period, primarily due to services
sales increasing as a percentage of total sales. We believe that income from operations is a more meaningful measure than gross profit and gross margin due to the diversity of our product categories and services.
22
Table of Contents
Fulfillment Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and related transaction costs, our level of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume, size,
and weight of units received and fulfilled, timing of fulfillment capacity expansion, the extent we utilize fulfillment services provided by third parties, mix of products and services sold, and our ability to affect customer service contacts per
unit by implementing improvements in our operations and enhancements to our customer self-service features. Additionally, because payment processing and fulfillment costs associated with seller transactions are based on the gross purchase price of
underlying transactions, and payment processing and related transaction and fulfillment costs are higher as a percentage of sales versus our retail sales, sales by our sellers have higher fulfillment costs as a percent of net sales.
The increase in fulfillment costs in absolute dollars in Q1 2013, compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to
variable costs corresponding with increased physical and digital product and services sales volume, inventory levels, and sales mix; costs from expanding fulfillment capacity; and payment processing and related transaction costs.
We seek to expand our fulfillment capacity to accommodate greater selection and in-stock inventory levels and meet anticipated shipment
volumes from sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties for which we provide the fulfillment services. We evaluate our facility requirements as necessary. Marketing We direct customers to our websites primarily through a number
of targeted online marketing channels, such as our Associates program, sponsored search, portal advertising, email marketing campaigns, and other initiatives. Our marketing expenses are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in
rates. To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing expense.
The increase in marketing costs in absolute dollars in Q1 2013, compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to
increased spending on online marketing channels, such as our sponsored search programs and our Associates program, payroll and related expenses, and television advertising. While costs associated with Amazon Prime memberships and other shipping offers are not included in marketing expense, we view these offers as effective worldwide marketing tools, and intend to continue
offering them indefinitely. Technology and Content
We seek to efficiently invest in several areas of technology and content such as technology infrastructure, including AWS, digital
initiatives, and expansion of new and existing physical and digital product categories and offerings, so we may continue to enhance the customer experience and improve our process efficiency. We expect spending in technology and content to increase
over time as we continue to add employees and technology infrastructure. The increase in technology and content costs in
absolute dollars in Q1 2013, compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses, including those associated with our digital initiatives, and increased spending on technology infrastructure,
including AWS. We expect these trends to continue over time as we invest in these areas by increasing payroll and related expenses and adding technology infrastructure. See Item 7 of Part II, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Overview" of our 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of how management views advances in technology and the importance of innovation.
During Q1 2013 and Q1 2012, we capitalized $130 million (including $19 million of stock-based compensation) and $88 million (including
$13 million of stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization of previously capitalized amounts was $101 million and $71 million for Q1 2013 and Q1 2012. A majority of our technology
costs are incurred in the U.S., most of which are allocated to our North America segment. Infrastructure, other technology, and operating costs incurred to support AWS are included in technology and content.
General and Administrative The increase in general and administrative costs in absolute dollars in Q1 2013, compared to the comparable prior year period, is primarily due to increases in payroll and related expenses.
Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation was $229 million and $160 million during Q1 2013 and Q1 2012. The increase is primarily due to an increase in total stock-based compensation value granted to our employees and to
a decrease in our estimated forfeiture rate.
23
Table of Contents
Other Operating Expense (Income), Net
Other operating expense (income), net was $31 million and $46 million for Q1 2013 and Q1 2012, and was primarily related to the
amortization of intangible assets. Income from Operations
For the reasons discussed above, income from operations decreased 6% to $181 million in Q1 2013, from $192 million in Q1 2012.
Interest Income and Expense Our interest income was $10 million and $12 million during Q1 2013 and Q1 2012. We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated
money market funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance of invested funds and the prevailing rates we are earning on them, which vary depending on the geographies and currencies in which they are invested.
The primary components of our interest expense are related to our long-term debt and capital and financing lease arrangements. Interest
expense was $33 million and $21 million during Q1 2013 and Q1 2012. Other Income (Expense), Net
Other income (expense), net was $(77) million and $(99) million during Q1 2013 and Q1 2012. The primary component of other income
(expense), net, is related to foreign-currency gains (losses) on intercompany balances. Income Taxes
Our tax provision or benefit from income taxes for interim periods is determined using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate,
adjusted for discrete items, if any, that are taken into account in the relevant period. Each quarter we update our estimate of the annual effective tax rate, and if our estimated tax rate changes, we make a cumulative adjustment.
Our quarterly tax provision, and our quarterly estimate of our annual effective tax rate, is subject to significant variation due to
several factors, including variability in accurately predicting our pre-tax and taxable income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, changes in how we do business, acquisitions (including integrations) and investments, audit
developments, foreign currency gains (losses), changes in law, regulations, and administrative practices, and relative changes of expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. Additionally, our effective tax rate can be more or less
volatile based on the amount of pre-tax income. For example, the impact of discrete items and non-deductible expenses on our effective tax rate is greater when our pre-tax income is lower.
In 2013, our effective tax rate will be significantly affected by the favorable impact of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions and
the adverse effect of losses incurred in certain foreign jurisdictions for which we may not realize a tax benefit. Income earned in lower tax jurisdictions is primarily related to our European operations, which are headquartered in Luxembourg.
Losses incurred in foreign jurisdictions for which we may not realize a tax benefit reduce our pre-tax income without a corresponding reduction in our tax expense, and therefore increase our effective tax rate.
During Q1 2013, we recognized an income tax benefit of $18 million, which includes $46 million of discrete tax benefits primarily
resulting from the retroactive reinstatement of the federal research and development credit that was enacted in January 2013.
24
Table of Contents
Equity-Method Investment Activity, Net of Tax
Equity-method investment activity, net of tax, was $(17) million and $89 million during Q1 2013 and Q1 2012. Details of the activity are
provided below (in millions):
Effect of Exchange Rates The effect on our consolidated statements of operations from changes in exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows (in millions):
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures, and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of
certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measures of "Free cash flow," operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation, and the effect of exchange rates on our consolidated statements of operations, meet the definition of
non-GAAP financial measures. Free cash flow is used in addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance
with GAAP and free cash flow should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. Free cash flow, which we
reconcile to "Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities," is cash flow from operations reduced by "Purchases of property and equipment, including internal-use software and website development." We use free cash flow,
and ratios based on it, to conduct and evaluate our business because, although it is similar to cash flow from operations, we believe it typically will present a more conservative measure of cash flows since purchases of property and equipment,
including internal-use software and website development, are a necessary component of ongoing operations. Free cash flow has
limitations due to the fact that it does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate the portion of payments representing principal reductions of debt, obligations
related to capital leases and leases accounted for as financing arrangements, or cash payments for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash
flows.
25
Table of Contents
The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP measure,
"Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities" for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 (in millions):
Operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation is provided to show the impact of
stock-based compensation, which is non-cash and excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement of financial performance (although we consider the dilutive impact to our shareholders when awarding stock-based compensation and value such
awards accordingly). In addition, unlike other centrally-incurred operating costs, stock-based compensation is not allocated to segment results and therefore excluding it from operating expense is consistent with our segment presentation in our
footnotes to the consolidated financial statements. Operating expenses without stock-based compensation has limitations since
it does not include all expenses primarily related to our workforce. More specifically, if we did not pay out a portion of our compensation in the form of stock-based compensation, our cash salary expense included in the "Fulfillment,"
"Technology and content," "Marketing," and "General and administrative" line items would be higher. Information regarding the effect of exchange rates, versus the U.S. Dollar, on our consolidated statements of operations is provided to show reported period operating results had the exchange rates
remained the same as those in effect in the comparable prior year period. Guidance
We provided guidance on April 25, 2013, in our earnings release furnished on Form 8-K as set forth below. These forward-looking
statements reflect Amazon.com's expectations as of April 25, 2013, and are subject to substantial uncertainty. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may be materially affected by many factors, such as fluctuations in foreign exchange
rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet and online commerce, as well as those outlined in Item 1A of Part II, "Risk Factors."
Second Quarter 2013 Guidance
We are exposed to market risk for the effect of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of our investments. Information relating to quantitative and
qualitative disclosures about market risk is set forth below and in Item 2 of Part I, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Liquidity and Capital Resources."
Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. The fair value of our debt will generally fluctuate with movements of
interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest. All of our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are designated as available-for-sale and, accordingly,
are presented at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Fixed rate securities may have their fair
market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, and we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates.
Foreign Exchange Risk During Q1 2013, net sales from our International segment accounted for 42% of our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from our international websites, as well as those relating
to (which is included in our North America segment), are denominated in the functional currencies of the corresponding websites and primarily include Euros, British Pounds, Japanese Yen, and Chinese Yuan. The functional currency
of our subsidiaries that either operate or support these
26
Table of Contents
websites is the same as the corresponding local currency. The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances associated with, our internationally-focused websites are exposed
to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon consolidation, as exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany
balances. For example, as a result of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates throughout the period compared to rates in effect the prior year, International segment revenues in Q1 2013 decreased by $301 million in comparison with Q1 2012.
We have foreign exchange risk related to foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities ("foreign
funds"). Based on the balance of foreign funds at March 31, 2013, of $3.8 billion, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% negative currency movement would result in fair value declines of $190 million, $380 million, and $755 million. All investments
are classified as "available for sale." Fluctuations in fair value are recorded in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss," a separate component of stockholders' equity.
We have foreign exchange risk related to our intercompany balances denominated in various foreign currencies. Based on the intercompany
balances at March 31, 2013, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% adverse change to foreign exchange would result in losses of $20 million, $40 million, and $80 million, recorded to "Other income (expense), net."
See Item 2 of Part I, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations --
Results of Operations -- Effect of Exchange Rates" for additional information on the effect on reported results of changes in exchange rates. Investment Risk As of March 31, 2013, our recorded basis in
equity investments was $176 million. These investments primarily relate to equity and cost method investments in private companies. We review our investments for impairment when events and circumstances indicate that the decline in fair value of
such assets below the carrying value is other-than-temporary. Our analysis includes review of recent operating results and trends, recent sales/acquisitions of the investee securities, and other publicly available data. The current global economic
climate provides additional uncertainty. Valuations of private companies are inherently more difficult due to the lack of readily available market data. As such, we believe that market sensitivities are not practicable.
We carried out an evaluation required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "1934 Act"), under the supervision and with
the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the 1934 Act, as of the end of the
period covered by this report. Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required
to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the 1934 Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and to provide reasonable assurance that such
information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
During the most recent fiscal quarter, there has not occurred any change in our internal control over financial reporting that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Our
disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives as specified above. Management does not expect, however, that our disclosure controls and procedures will prevent or detect all error and
fraud. Any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, is based upon certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. Further, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute
assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected.
27
Table of Contents
PART II. OTHER INFORMATION
See
Item 1 of Part I, "Financial Statements -- Note 3 -- Commitments and Contingencies -- Legal Proceedings."
Please
carefully consider the following risk factors. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the current global economic climate
amplifies many of these risks. We Face Intense Competition
Our businesses are rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and we have many competitors in different industries, including retail,
e-commerce services, digital content and digital media devices, and web services. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater resources, longer histories, more customers, and greater brand recognition. They may secure better terms
from vendors, adopt more aggressive pricing and devote more resources to technology, infrastructure, fulfillment, and marketing. Competition may intensify as our competitors enter into business combinations or alliances and established companies in other market segments expand into our market segments. In addition, new and enhanced
technologies, including search, web services, and digital, may increase our competition. The Internet facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping, and increased competition may reduce our sales and profits.
Our Expansion Places a Significant Strain on our Management, Operational, Financial and Other Resources
We are rapidly and significantly expanding our global operations, including increasing our product and service offerings and scaling our
infrastructure to support our retail and services businesses. This expansion increases the complexity of our business and places significant strain on our management, personnel, operations, systems, technical performance, financial resources, and
internal financial control and reporting functions. We may not be able to manage growth effectively, which could damage our reputation, limit our growth and negatively affect our operating results.
Our Expansion into New Products, Services, Technologies and Geographic Regions Subjects Us to Additional Business, Legal, Financial
and Competitive Risks We may have limited or no experience in our newer market segments, and our customers may not
adopt our new offerings. These offerings may present new and difficult technology challenges, and we may be subject to claims if customers of these offerings experience service disruptions or failures or other quality issues. In addition,
profitability, if any, in our newer activities may be lower than in our older activities, and we may not be successful enough in these newer activities to recoup our investments in them. If any of this were to occur, it could damage our reputation,
limit our growth and negatively affect our operating results. We May Experience Significant Fluctuations in Our
Operating Results and Growth Rate We may not be able to accurately forecast our growth rate. We base our expense
levels and investment plans on sales estimates. A significant portion of our expenses and investments is fixed, and we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough if our sales are less than expected.
Our revenue growth may not be sustainable, and our percentage growth rates may decrease. Our revenue and operating profit growth depends
on the continued growth of demand for the products and services offered by us or our sellers, and our business is affected by general economic and business conditions worldwide. A softening of demand, whether caused by changes in customer
preferences or a weakening of the U.S. or global economies, may result in decreased revenue or growth. Our sales and
operating results will also fluctuate for many other reasons, including due to risks described elsewhere in this section and the following:
28
Table of Contents
We May Not Be Successful in Our Efforts to Expand into International Market Segments Our international activities are significant to our revenues and profits, and we plan to further expand internationally. In certain international market segments, we have relatively little operating
experience and may not benefit from any first-to-market advantages or otherwise succeed. It is costly to establish, develop and maintain international operations and websites and promote our brand internationally. Our international operations may
not be profitable on a sustained basis. In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our international sales and
operations are subject to a number of risks, including:
29
Table of Contents
As international e-commerce and other online services grow, competition will intensify.
Local companies may have a substantial competitive advantage because of their greater understanding of, and focus on, the local customer, as well as their more established local brand names. We may not be able to hire, train, retain, and manage
required personnel, which may limit our international growth. The People's Republic of China ("PRC") regulates
Amazon's and its affiliates' businesses and operations in the PRC through regulations and license requirements restricting (i) foreign investment in the Internet, IT infrastructure, retail, delivery, and other sectors,
(ii) Internet content and (iii) the sale of media and other products. For example, in order to meet local ownership and regulatory licensing requirements, is operated by PRC companies that are indirectly owned, either wholly
or partially, by PRC nationals. Although we believe these structures comply with existing PRC laws, they involve unique risks. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation of PRC laws and regulations, and it is possible that the
PRC government will ultimately take a view contrary to ours. If our Chinese business interests were found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations or if interpretations of those laws and regulations were to change, the
business could be subject to fines and other financial penalties, have licenses revoked or be forced to shut down entirely. In addition, the Chinese businesses and operations may be unable to continue to operate if we or our affiliates are unable to
enforce contractual relationships with respect to management and control of such businesses. If We Do Not Successfully
Optimize and Operate Our Fulfillment Centers, Our Business Could Be Harmed If we do not adequately predict customer
demand or otherwise optimize and operate our fulfillment centers successfully, it could result in excess or insufficient inventory or fulfillment capacity, result in increased costs, impairment charges, or both, or harm our business in other ways. A
failure to optimize inventory will increase our net shipping cost by requiring long-zone or partial shipments. Orders from several of our websites are fulfilled primarily from a single location, and we have only a limited ability to reroute orders
to third parties for drop-shipping. We and our co-sourcers may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment and customer service centers. As we continue to add fulfillment and warehouse capability or add new businesses with different fulfillment
requirements, our fulfillment network becomes increasingly complex and operating it becomes more challenging. If the other businesses on whose behalf we perform inventory fulfillment services deliver product to our fulfillment centers in excess of
forecasts, we may be unable to secure sufficient storage space and may be unable to optimize our fulfillment centers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to operate our network effectively.
We rely on a limited number of shipping companies to deliver inventory to us and completed orders to our customers. If we are not able to
negotiate acceptable terms with these companies or they experience performance problems or other difficulties, it could negatively impact our operating results and customer experience. In addition, our ability to receive inbound inventory
efficiently and ship completed orders to customers also may be negatively affected by inclement weather, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, labor disputes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God and similar factors.
Third parties either drop-ship or otherwise fulfill an increasing portion of our customers' orders, and we are increasingly reliant
on the reliability, quality and future procurement of their services. Under some of our commercial agreements, we maintain the inventory of other companies, thereby increasing the complexity of tracking inventory and operating our fulfillment
centers. Our failure to properly handle such inventory or the inability of these other companies to accurately forecast product demand would result in unexpected costs and other harm to our business and reputation.
The Seasonality of Our Business Places Increased Strain on Our Operations
We expect a disproportionate amount of our net sales to occur during our fourth quarter. If we do not stock or restock popular products in
sufficient amounts such that we fail to meet customer demand, it could significantly affect our revenue and our future growth. If we overstock products, we may be required to take significant inventory markdowns or write-offs, which could reduce
profitability. We may experience an increase in our net shipping cost due to complimentary upgrades, split-shipments, and additional long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely delivery for the holiday season. If too many customers access our
websites within a short period of time due to increased holiday demand, we may experience system interruptions that make our websites unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume of goods we sell and the
attractiveness of our products and services. In addition, we may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment and customer service centers during these peak periods and delivery and other fulfillment companies and customer service co-sourcers may
be unable to meet the seasonal demand. We also face risks described elsewhere in this Item 1A relating to fulfillment center optimization and inventory. We generally have payment terms with our vendors that extend beyond the amount of time necessary to collect proceeds from our customers. As a result of holiday sales, at December 31 of each year, our
cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances typically reach their highest level (other than as a result of cash flows provided by or used in investing and financing activities). This operating cycle results in a corresponding increase
in accounts payable at December 31. Our accounts payable balance generally declines during the first three months of the year, resulting in a corresponding decline in our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances.
30
Table of Contents
Our Business Could Suffer if We Are Unsuccessful in Making, Integrating, and
Maintaining Commercial Agreements, Strategic Alliances, and Other Business Relationships We provide e-commerce
services to other businesses through our seller programs and other commercial agreements, strategic alliances and business relationships. Under these agreements, we provide technology, fulfillment and other services, as well as enable sellers to
offer products or services through our websites and power their websites. These arrangements are complex and require substantial personnel and resource commitments by us, which may limit the agreements we are able to enter into and our ability to
integrate and deliver services under them. If we fail to implement, maintain, and develop the components of these commercial relationships, which may include fulfillment, customer service, inventory management, tax collection, payment processing,
licensing of third-party software, hardware, and content, and engaging third parties to perform hosting and other services, these initiatives may not be viable. The amount of compensation we receive under certain of these agreements is partially
dependent on the volume of the other company's sales. Therefore, if the other company's offering is not successful, the compensation we receive may be lower than expected or the agreement may be terminated. Moreover, we may not be able to
enter into additional commercial relationships and strategic alliances on favorable terms. We also may be subject to claims from businesses to which we provide these services if we are unsuccessful in implementing, maintaining or developing these
services. As our agreements terminate, we may be unable to renew or replace these agreements on comparable terms, or at all.
We may in the future enter into amendments on less favorable terms or encounter parties that have difficulty meeting their contractual obligations to us, which could adversely affect our operating results.
Our present and future e-commerce services agreements, other commercial agreements, and strategic alliances create additional risks such
as:
Our Business Could Suffer if We Are Unsuccessful in Making, Integrating, and Maintaining Acquisitions and Investments We have acquired and invested in a number of companies, and we may acquire or invest in or enter into joint ventures with additional companies. These transactions create risks such as:
As a result of future acquisitions or
mergers, we might need to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could reduce our profitability and harm our business. In
addition, valuations supporting our acquisitions and strategic investments could change rapidly given the current global economic climate. We could determine that such valuations have experienced impairments or other-than-temporary declines in fair
value which could adversely impact our financial results.
31
Table of Contents
We Have Foreign Exchange Risk
The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances associated with, our international websites are exposed to foreign
exchange rate fluctuations. Upon translation, operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. As we have expanded our international operations,
our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations has increased. We also hold cash equivalents and/or marketable securities primarily in Euros, Japanese Yen, British Pounds, and Chinese Yuan. If the U.S. Dollar strengthens compared to these
currencies, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances, when translated, may be materially less than expected and vice versa. The Loss of Key Senior Management Personnel Could Negatively Affect Our Business We depend on our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Jeffrey P. Bezos, our President, CEO, and Chairman. We do not have "key person" life insurance policies. The loss of any
of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. We Could Be Harmed by Data Loss or Other
Security Breaches As a result of our services being web-based and the fact that we process, store and transmit large
amounts of data, including personal information, for our customers, failure to prevent or mitigate data loss or other security breaches, including breaches of our vendors' technology and systems, could expose us or our customers to a risk of
loss or misuse of such information, adversely affect our operating results, result in litigation or potential liability for us and otherwise harm our business. We use third party technology and systems for a variety of reasons, including, without
limitation, encryption and authentication technology, employee email, content delivery to customers, back-office support and other functions. Some subsidiaries had past security breaches, and, although they did not have a material adverse effect on
our operating results, there can be no assurance of a similar result in the future. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect customer information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, including
systems and processes designed to reduce the impact of a security breach at a third party vendor, such measures cannot provide absolute security. We Face Risks Related to System Interruption and Lack of Redundancy
We experience occasional system interruptions and delays that make our websites and services unavailable or slow to respond and prevent us
from efficiently fulfilling orders or providing services to third parties, which may reduce our net sales and the attractiveness of our products and services. If we are unable to continually add software and hardware, effectively upgrade our systems
and network infrastructure and take other steps to improve the efficiency of our systems, it could cause system interruptions or delays and adversely affect our operating results.
Our computer and communications systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications
failure, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and similar events or disruptions. Any of these events could cause system interruption, delays, and loss of critical data, and could
prevent us from accepting and fulfilling customer orders and providing services, which could make our product and service offerings less attractive and subject us to liability. Our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning
may not be sufficient. In addition, we may have inadequate insurance coverage to compensate for any related losses. Any of these events could damage our reputation and be expensive to remedy.
We Face Significant Inventory Risk In addition to risks described elsewhere in this Item 1A relating to fulfillment center and inventory optimization by us and third parties, we are exposed to significant inventory risks that may
adversely affect our operating results as a result of seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes in product cycles and pricing, defective merchandise, changes in consumer demand and consumer spending patterns, changes in consumer tastes with
respect to our products and other factors. We endeavor to accurately predict these trends and avoid overstocking or understocking products we manufacture and/or sell. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory
or components are ordered and the date of sale. In addition, when we begin selling or manufacturing a new product, it may be difficult to establish vendor relationships, determine appropriate product or component selection, and accurately forecast
demand. The acquisition of certain types of inventory or components may require significant lead-time and prepayment and they may not be returnable. We carry a broad selection and significant inventory levels of certain products, such as consumer
electronics, and we may be unable to sell products in sufficient quantities or during the relevant selling seasons. Any one of the inventory risk factors set forth above may adversely affect our operating results.
32
Table of Contents
We May Not Be Able to Adequately Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights or May Be
Accused of Infringing Intellectual Property Rights of Third Parties We regard our trademarks, service marks,
copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology, and similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license
agreements with our employees, customers, and others to protect our proprietary rights. Effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are made available. We also may not be able
to acquire or maintain appropriate domain names in all countries in which we do business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. We may be unable to prevent third parties from
acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon, or diminish the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. We may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. Third parties that license our proprietary rights also may take actions that diminish the value of
our proprietary rights or reputation. The protection of our intellectual property may require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may not adequately
protect our rights or prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our proprietary rights. We also cannot be certain that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology or other intellectual
property rights. Other parties also may claim that we infringe their proprietary rights. We have been subject to, and expect
to continue to be subject to, claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement by us of the intellectual property rights of third parties. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, may result in the expenditure of significant financial and
managerial resources, injunctions against us or the payment of damages. We may need to obtain licenses from third parties who allege that we have infringed their rights, but such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. In
addition, we may not be able to obtain or utilize on terms that are favorable to us, or at all, licenses or other rights with respect to intellectual property we do not own. These risks have been amplified by the increase in third parties whose sole
or primary business is to assert such claims. Our digital content offerings depend in part on effective digital rights
management technology to control access to digital content. If the digital rights management technology that we use is compromised or otherwise malfunctions, we could be subject to claims, and content providers may be unwilling to include their
content in our service. We Have a Rapidly Evolving Business Model and Our Stock Price Is Highly Volatile
We have a rapidly evolving business model. The trading price of our common stock fluctuates significantly in response
to, among other risks, the risks described elsewhere in this Item 1A, as well as:
Volatility in our stock price could adversely affect our business and financing opportunities and force us to increase our cash
compensation to employees or grant larger stock awards than we have historically, which could hurt our operating results or reduce the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders, or both.
Government Regulation Is Evolving and Unfavorable Changes Could Harm Our Business
We are subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet, e-commerce,
and electronic devices. Existing and future laws and regulations may impede our growth. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, mobile communications, electronic device
certification, electronic waste, electronic contracts and other communications, competition, consumer protection, web services, the provision of online payment services, unencumbered Internet access to our services, the design and operation of
websites, and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, libel, and personal privacy apply to the Internet, e-commerce, digital content and web services.
Jurisdictions may regulate consumer-to-consumer online businesses, including certain aspects of our seller programs. Unfavorable regulations and laws could diminish the demand for our products and services and increase our cost of doing business.
33
Table of Contents
We Do Not Collect Sales or Consumption Taxes in Some Jurisdictions
U.S. Supreme Court decisions restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and local sales taxes with respect to remote sales.
However, an increasing number of states have considered or adopted laws that attempt to impose obligations on out-of-state retailers to collect taxes on their behalf. We support a Federal law that would allow states to require sales tax collection
under a nationwide system. More than half of our revenue is already earned in jurisdictions where we collect sales tax or its equivalent. A successful assertion by one or more states or foreign countries requiring us to collect taxes where we do not
do so could result in substantial tax liabilities, including for past sales, as well as penalties and interest. We
Could be Subject to Additional Income Tax Liabilities We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous
foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is
uncertain. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by losses
incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize the related tax benefit, by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, by entry into new businesses and geographies and changes to our existing businesses, by acquisitions (including
integrations) and investments, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in the relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations, with a
number of countries actively considering changes in this regard. In addition, we are subject to audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax liabilities against us. Although we believe our tax estimates are
reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Developments in an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our operating results
or cash flows in the period or periods for which that development occurs, as well as for prior and subsequent periods.
Our Supplier Relationships Subject Us to a Number of Risks
We have significant suppliers, including licensors, and in some cases, limited or single-sources of supply, that are important to our
sourcing, services, manufacturing, and any related ongoing servicing of merchandise and content. We do not have long-term arrangements with most of our suppliers to guarantee availability of merchandise, content, components or services, particular
payment terms, or the extension of credit limits. If our current suppliers were to stop selling or licensing merchandise, content, components or services to us on acceptable terms, or delay delivery, including as a result of one or more supplier
bankruptcies due to poor economic conditions, as a result of natural disasters or for other reasons, we may be unable to procure alternatives from other suppliers in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all.
We May be Subject to Risks Related to Government Contracts and Related Procurement Regulations
Our contracts with U.S., as well as state, local and foreign, government entities are subject to various procurement regulations and other
requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. We may be subject to audits and investigations relating to our government contracts and any violations could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative
sanctions, including termination of contract, refunding or suspending of payments, forfeiture of profits, payment of fines and suspension or debarment from future government business. In addition, such contracts may provide for termination by the
government at any time, without cause. We May Be Subject to Product Liability Claims if People or Property Are Harmed
by the Products We Sell Some of the products we sell or manufacture may expose us to product liability claims relating
to personal injury, death, or environmental or property damage, and may require product recalls or other actions. Certain third parties also sell products using our e-commerce platform that may increase our exposure to product liability claims, such
as if these sellers do not have sufficient protection from such claims. Although we maintain liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be
available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, some of our agreements with our vendors and sellers do not indemnify us from product liability. We Are Subject to Payments-Related Risks We accept payments using a
variety of methods, including credit card, debit card, credit accounts (including promotional financing), gift certificates, direct debit from a customer's bank account, consumer invoicing, physical bank check and payment upon delivery. As we
offer new payment options to our customers, we may be subject to additional regulations, compliance requirements, and fraud. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over
time and raise our operating costs and lower profitability. We rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards, electronic checks, and promotional financing, and it could disrupt
our business if these companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us. We are also subject to payment card association operating
34
Table of Contents
rules, including data security rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us
to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, or if our data security systems are breached or compromised, we may be liable for card issuing banks' costs, subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to
accept credit and debit card payments from our customers, process electronic funds transfers, or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We also offer co-branded credit card
programs that represent a significant component of our services revenue. If one or more of these agreements are terminated and we are unable to replace them on similar terms, or at all, it could adversely affect our operating results.
In addition, we qualify as a money services business in certain jurisdictions because we enable customers to keep account balances with
us and transfer money to third parties, and because we provide services to third parties to facilitate payments on their behalf. In these jurisdictions, we may be subject to requirements for licensing, regulatory inspection, bonding, the handling of
transferred funds and consumer disclosures. We are also subject to or voluntarily comply with a number of other laws and regulations relating to payments, money laundering, international money transfers, privacy and information security and
electronic fund transfers. If we were found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to additional requirements, such as maintaining capital and segregating funds, and civil and criminal penalties, or forced to cease
providing certain services. We Could Be Liable for Fraudulent or Unlawful Activities of Sellers
The law relating to the liability of providers of online payment services is currently unsettled. In addition, governmental agencies could
require changes in the way this business is conducted. Under our seller programs, we may be unable to prevent sellers from collecting payments, fraudulently or otherwise, when buyers never receive the products they ordered or when the products
received are materially different from the sellers' descriptions. Under our A2Z Guarantee, we reimburse buyers for payments up to certain limits in these situations, and as our marketplace seller sales grow, the cost of this program will
increase and could negatively affect our operating results. We also may be unable to prevent sellers on our sites or through other seller sites from selling unlawful goods, from selling goods in an unlawful manner, or violating the proprietary
rights of others, and could face civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities by our sellers.
None.
None.
Not applicable.
Not
applicable.
See exhibits
listed under the Exhibit Index below.
35
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 25, 2013
36
Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX
37