.
38
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (in millions, except per share data)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
39
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in millions, except per share data)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
40
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (in millions)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
41
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1--DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES Description of Business Amazon.com opened its virtual doors on the World Wide Web in July 1995 and offers Earth's Biggest Selection. We seek to be Earth's
most customer-centric company for three primary customer sets: consumers, sellers, and developers. We serve consumers through our retail websites and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We also manufacture and sell the Kindle e-reader. We
offer programs that enable sellers to sell their products on our websites and their own branded websites and to fulfill orders through us. We serve developers through Amazon Web Services, which provides access to technology infrastructure that
developers can use to enable virtually any type of business. In addition, we generate revenue through co-branded credit card agreements and other marketing and promotional services, such as online advertising. We have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. See "Note 11--Segment
Information." Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and those entities in which we have
a variable interest and are the primary beneficiary. Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Use of
Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited to, valuation of
investments, collectability of receivables, sales returns, incentive discount offers, valuation of inventory, depreciable lives of fixed assets and internally-developed software, valuation of acquired intangibles and goodwill, income taxes,
stock-based compensation, and contingencies. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Subsequent
Events We have evaluated subsequent events and transactions for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial
statements through January 28, 2010, the day the financial statements were issued. Earnings per Share
Basic earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares. Diluted earnings per share is calculated
using our weighted-average outstanding common shares including the dilutive effect of stock awards as determined under the treasury stock method.
42
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
The following table shows the calculation of diluted shares (in millions):
Treasury Stock We account for treasury stock under the cost method and
include treasury stock as a component of stockholders' equity. Cash and Cash Equivalents We classify all highly liquid instruments, including money market funds that comply with Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act of 1940,
with an original maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase as cash equivalents. Inventories
Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are accounted for using primarily the FIFO method, and are valued at the lower of
cost or market value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and
expected recoverable values of each disposition category. We provide fulfillment-related services in connection with certain
of our sellers' programs. The third party seller maintains ownership of their inventory, regardless of whether fulfillment is provided by us or the third party seller, and therefore these products are not included in our inventories.
Accounts Receivable, Net, and Other Included in "Accounts receivable, net, and other" on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to vendor and customer receivables. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, vendor
receivables, net, were $495 million and $400 million, and customer receivables, net, were $341 million and $311 million. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We estimate losses on receivables based on known troubled accounts and
historical experience of losses incurred. The allowance for doubtful customer and vendor receivables was $72 million and $81 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008.
43
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Internal-use Software and Website Development Costs incurred to develop software for internal use and our websites are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life of the
software. Costs related to design or maintenance of internal-use software and website development are expensed as incurred. For the years ended 2009, 2008, and 2007, we capitalized $187 million (including $35 million of stock-based
compensation), $187 million (including $27 million of stock-based compensation), and $129 million (including $21 million of stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization of previously
capitalized amounts was $172 million, $143 million, and $116 million for 2009, 2008, and 2007. Depreciation of Fixed
Assets Fixed assets include assets such as furniture and fixtures, heavy equipment, technology infrastructure,
internal-use software and website development. Depreciation is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets (generally two years for assets such as internal-use software, three years for our technology
infrastructure, five years for furniture and fixtures, and ten years for heavy equipment). Depreciation expense is generally classified within the corresponding operating expense categories on our consolidated statements of operations.
Leases and Asset Retirement Obligations We categorize leases at their inception as either operating or capital leases. On certain of our lease agreements, we may receive rent holidays and other incentives. We recognize lease costs on a
straight-line basis without regard to deferred payment terms, such as rent holidays that defer the commencement date of required payments. Additionally, incentives we receive are treated as a reduction of our costs over the term of the agreement.
Leasehold improvements are capitalized at cost and amortized over the lesser of their expected useful life or the life of the lease, excluding renewal periods. We establish assets and liabilities for the estimated construction costs incurred under
build-to-suit lease arrangements to the extent we are involved in the construction of structural improvements or take some level of construction risk prior to commencement of a lease. We establish assets and liabilities for the present value of estimated future costs to return certain of our leased facilities to their
original condition. Such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted to the future value of the estimated restoration costs. Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually and when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the book value of net assets to
the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying
value. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flow are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on estimated category expansion, pricing,
market segment penetration and general economic conditions. We conduct our annual impairment test as of October 1 of
each year, and have determined there to be no impairment for any of the periods presented. There were no events or circumstances from the date of our assessment through December 31, 2009 that would impact this conclusion.
44
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
See "Note 4--Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets."
Other Assets Included in "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to marketable securities restricted for longer than one year, the majority of which are attributable
to collateralization of bank guarantees and debt related to our international operations; acquired intangible assets, net of amortization; deferred costs; certain equity investments; and intellectual property rights, net of amortization.
Investments We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short to intermediate term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Such investments are included in "Cash and cash equivalents," or "Marketable
securities" on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, classified as available-for-sale, and reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in "Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)." Equity investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting if the investment gives us the ability to exercise significant
influence, but not control, over an investee. The total of these investments in equity-method investees, including identifiable intangible assets, deferred tax liabilities and goodwill, is classified on our consolidated balance sheets as "Other
assets." Our share of the investees' earnings or losses and amortization of the related intangible assets, if any, is classified as "Equity-method investment activity, net of tax" on our consolidated statements of operations.
Equity investments without readily determinable fair values for which we do not have the ability to exercise significant
influence are accounted for using the cost method of accounting. Under the cost method, investments are carried at cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines in fair value, distributions of earnings, and additional investments.
Equity investments that have readily determinable fair values are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair
value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss." We
periodically evaluate whether declines in fair values of our investments below their cost are other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists of several qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the severity and duration of the unrealized loss
as well as our ability and intent to hold the investment until a forecasted recovery occurs. Additionally, we assess whether it is more likely than not we will be required to sell any investment before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Factors
considered include quoted market prices; recent financial results and operating trends; other publicly available information; implied values from any recent transactions or offers of investee securities; other conditions that may affect the value of
our investments; duration and severity of the decline in value; and our strategy and intentions for holding the investment. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant
change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable.
45
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
For long-lived assets used in operations, impairment losses are only recorded if the
asset's carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when certain criteria are met, including when management has committed to a plan to sell the
asset, the asset is available for sale in its immediate condition, and the sale is probable within one year of the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported at the lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell. Assets held for sale were not
significant at December 31, 2009 or 2008. Accrued Expenses and Other Included in "Accrued expenses and other" at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were liabilities of $347 million and $270 million for
unredeemed gift certificates. We reduce the liability for a gift certificate when it is applied to an order. If a gift certificate is not redeemed, we recognize revenue when it expires or, for a certificate without an expiration date, when the
likelihood of its redemption becomes remote, generally two years from date of issuance. Unearned Revenue
Unearned revenue is recorded when payments are received in advance of performing our service obligations and is recognized over the
service period. Current unearned revenue is included in "Accrued expenses and other" and non-current unearned revenue is included in "Other long-term liabilities" on our consolidated balance sheets. Current unearned revenue was
$511 million and $191 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Non-current unearned revenue was $201 million and $46 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Income Taxes Income tax expense includes U.S. and international income
taxes. Except as required under U.S. tax law, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of
the U.S. Undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that are indefinitely invested outside of the U.S were $912 million at December 31, 2009. Determination of the unrecognized deferred tax liability that would be incurred if such amounts
were repatriated is not practicable. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered. Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe a portion will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the
likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience and expectations of future taxable income and capital gains by taxing jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax
reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. We allocate our valuation allowance to current and long-term deferred tax assets on a pro-rata basis. We utilize a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions (tax contingencies). The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of
available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related
46
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
appeals or litigation processes. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We consider
many factors when evaluating and estimating our tax positions and tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately forecast actual outcomes. We include interest and penalties related to our tax contingencies in
income tax expense. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between
market participants at the measurement date. To increase the comparability of fair value measures, the following hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation methodologies used to measure fair value: Level 1--Valuations based on quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets.
Level 2--Valuations based on observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1,
such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market
data. Level 3--Valuations based on unobservable inputs reflecting our own assumptions,
consistent with reasonably available assumptions made by other market participants. These valuations require significant judgment. We measure the fair value of money market funds based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. All other financial instruments were valued based on quoted market prices of similar instruments and other
significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data. Revenue We recognize revenue from product sales or services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive
evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate
units of accounting if the deliverables in the arrangement meet the following criteria: there is standalone value to the delivered item; there is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of the undelivered items; and delivery of any
undelivered item is probable. We evaluate whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of product sales and related
costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are primarily obligated in a transaction, are subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, or have several but not all of these indicators,
revenue is recorded gross. If we are not primarily obligated and amounts earned are determined using a fixed percentage, a fixed-payment schedule, or a combination of the two, we generally record the net amounts as commissions earned. Product sales and shipping revenues, net of promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are
shipped and title passes to customers. Retail sales to customers are made pursuant to a sales contract that provides for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon our delivery to the carrier. Return allowances, which reduce product revenue, are
estimated using historical experience. Revenue from product sales and services rendered is recorded net of sales and consumption taxes. Amounts received in advance for subscription services, including amounts received for Amazon Prime and other
membership programs, are
47
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
deferred and recognized as revenue over the subscription term. For our products with multiple elements, where objective and reliable evidence of fair value for the undelivered elements cannot be
established, we recognize the revenue and related cost over the expected life of the product. We periodically provide
incentive offers to our customers to encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such as percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such as offers for future discounts subject to a minimum current purchase,
and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to the purchase price of the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to
purchase price based on estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are presented as a net amount in "Net
sales." Commissions and per-unit fees received from sellers and similar amounts earned through other seller sites are
recognized when the item is sold by seller and our collectability is reasonably assured. We record an allowance for estimated refunds on such commissions using historical experience. Shipping Activities Outbound shipping charges to customers are included in "Net sales" and were $924 million, $835 million, and $740 million for 2009, 2008, and 2007. Outbound shipping-related costs are included in "Cost of sales" and
totaled $1.8 billion, $1.5 billion, and $1.2 billion for 2009, 2008, and 2007. The net cost to us of shipping activities was $849 million, $630 million, and $434 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007. Cost of Sales Cost of sales consists of the purchase price of consumer products and content sold by us, inbound and outbound shipping charges, packaging supplies, and costs incurred in operating and staffing our fulfillment and customer service centers
on behalf of other businesses. Shipping charges to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory, and recognized as "Cost of sales" upon sale of products to our customers. Payment processing and related transaction
costs, including those associated with seller transactions, are classified in "Fulfillment" on our consolidated statements of operations. Vendor Agreements We have agreements to receive cash consideration from
certain of our vendors, including rebates and cooperative marketing reimbursements. We generally consider amounts received from our vendors as a reduction of the prices we pay for their products and, therefore, we record such amounts as either a
reduction of "Cost of sales" on our consolidated statements of operations, or, if the product inventory is still on hand, as a reduction of the carrying value of inventory. Vendor rebates are typically dependent upon reaching minimum
purchase thresholds. We evaluate the likelihood of reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts. When volume rebates can be reasonably estimated, we record a portion of the rebate as we make progress towards the
purchase threshold. When we receive direct reimbursements for costs incurred by us in advertising the vendor's product
or service, the amount we receive is recorded as an offset to "Marketing" on our consolidated statements of operations.
48
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Fulfillment Fulfillment costs represent those costs incurred in operating and staffing our fulfillment and customer service centers, including costs
attributable to buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; payment processing and related transaction costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain
seller transactions; and responding to inquiries from customers. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid to third parties that assist us in fulfillment and customer service operations. Certain of our fulfillment-related costs that are incurred
on behalf of other businesses are classified as cost of sales rather than fulfillment. Marketing Marketing costs consist primarily of online advertising, including through our Associates program, sponsored search, portal advertising, and
other initiatives. We pay commissions to participants in our Associates program when their customer referrals result in product sales and classify such costs as "Marketing" on our consolidated statements of operations. We also participate
in cooperative advertising arrangements with certain of our vendors, and other third parties. Marketing expenses also consist
of public relations expenditures; payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing, business development, and selling activities; and to a lesser extent, traditional advertising. Advertising and other promotional costs, which consist primarily of online advertising, are expensed as incurred, and were $593 million,
$420 million, and $306 million, in 2009, 2008, and 2007. Prepaid advertising costs were not significant at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Technology and Content Technology and content expenses consist principally
of payroll and related expenses for employees involved in, application development, category expansion, editorial content, buying, merchandising selection, and systems support, as well as costs associated with the compute, storage and
telecommunications infrastructure used internally and supporting Amazon Web Services. Technology and content costs are
expensed as incurred, except for certain costs relating to the development of internal-use software and website development, including software used to upgrade and enhance our websites and processes supporting our business, which are capitalized and
amortized over two years. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of payroll and related expenses for employees involved in general corporate functions, including
accounting, finance, tax, legal, and human relations, among others; costs associated with use by these functions of facilities and equipment, such as depreciation expense and rent; professional fees and litigation costs; and other general corporate
costs. Stock-Based Compensation Compensation cost for all stock-based awards is measured at fair value on date of grant and recognized over the service period for awards expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock units is
determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock. Such value is recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method. The estimation of stock awards that
49
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the
period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including types of awards, employee class, and historical experience. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net, consists
primarily of gains and losses on sales of marketable securities, foreign currency transaction gains and losses, and other losses. Foreign Currency We have internationally-focused websites for the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Japan,
Canada, and China. Net sales generated from internationally-focused websites, as well as most of the related expenses directly incurred from those operations, are denominated in the functional currencies of the resident countries. The
functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support these international websites is the same as the local currency. Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars at period-end exchange rates, and
revenues and expenses are translated at average rates prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are included in "Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)," a separate component of stockholders' equity, and in the
"Foreign currency effect on cash and cash equivalents," on our consolidated statements of cash flows. Transaction gains and losses arising from transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity
involved are included in "Other income (expense), net" on our consolidated statements of operations. Gains and
losses arising from intercompany foreign currency transactions are included in net income. In connection with the remeasurement of intercompany balances, we recorded gains of $5 million, $23 million and $32 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements In December 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statements of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 141 (R), Business Combinations,
codified as Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 805, Business Combinations, and SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, codified as ASC 810, Consolidations. SFAS
No. 141 (R) requires an acquirer to measure the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquired entity at their fair values on the acquisition date, with goodwill being the excess
value over the net identifiable assets acquired. SFAS No. 160 clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements. The calculation of earnings per share will continue to
be based on income amounts attributable to the parent. SFAS No. 141 (R) impacted acquisitions closed on or after January 1, 2009. Adoption did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements on the date of
adoption. In December 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2009-17, which codifies SFAS
No. 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R) issued in June 2009. ASU 2009-17 requires a qualitative approach to identifying a controlling financial interest in a variable interest entity ("VIE"), and requires
ongoing assessment of whether an entity is a VIE and whether an interest in a VIE makes the holder the primary beneficiary of the VIE. ASU 2009-17 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after November 15, 2009. We do not expect the
adoption of ASU 2009-17 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
50
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU 2009-13, which amends ASC Topic 605, Revenue
Recognition. Under this standard, management is no longer required to obtain vendor-specific objective evidence or third party evidence of fair value for each deliverable in an arrangement with multiple elements, and where evidence is not
available we may now estimate the proportion of the selling price attributable to each deliverable. We have chosen to prospectively adopt this standard as of January 1, 2010. Sales of our Kindle e-reader are considered arrangements with multiple elements which include the device, wireless access and delivery and
software upgrades. The revenue related to the device, which is the substantial portion of the total sale price, and related costs will be recognized at time of delivery. Revenue for the wireless access and delivery and software upgrades will
continue to be amortized over the life of the device, which remains estimated at two years. We cannot reasonably estimate the
effect of adopting this standard on future financial periods as the impact will vary based on actual volume of activity under these types of revenue arrangements. For arrangements entered into prior to the adoption of the new accounting standard and for which revenue had been previously deferred, we will recognize $508 million throughout 2010 and 2011.
In January 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-6, Improving Disclosures About Fair Value Measurements, which requires reporting
entities to make new disclosures about recurring or nonrecurring fair-value measurements including significant transfers into and out of Level 1 and Level 2 fair-value measurements and information on purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements on a
gross basis in the reconciliation of Level 3 fair- value measurements. ASU 2010-6 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009, except for Level 3 reconciliation disclosures which are effective for annual periods
beginning after December 15, 2010. We do not expect the adoption of ASU 2010-6 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Note 2--CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES As of December 31, 2009 and 2008 our cash,
cash equivalents, and marketable securities primarily consisted of cash, government and government agency securities, AAA-rated money market funds and other investment grade securities. Such amounts are recorded at fair value. The following table
summarizes, by major security type, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities (in millions):
51
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
The following table summarizes gross gains and gross losses realized on sales of available-for-sale marketable
securities (in millions):
The following table summarizes contractual maturities of our cash equivalent and
marketable fixed-income securities as of December 31, 2009 (in millions):
52
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
The following table summarizes, by major security type, our assets that are measured at
fair value on a recurring basis and are categorized using the fair value hierarchy (in millions):
53
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Note 3--FIXED ASSETS Fixed assets, at cost, consisted of the following (in millions):
Depreciation expense on fixed assets was $384 million, $311 million, and $258 million, which includes
amortization of fixed assets acquired under capital lease obligations of $88 million, $50 million, and $40 million for 2009, 2008, and 2007. Gross assets remaining under capital leases were $430 million and $304 million at December 31, 2009 and
2008. Accumulated depreciation associated with capital leases was $184 million and $116 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Note
4--ACQUISITIONS, GOODWILL, AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS 2009 Acquisition Activity On November 1, 2009, we acquired 100% of the outstanding equity of Zappos.com, Inc. ("Zappos"), in exchange for shares of our
common stock, to expand our presence in softline retail categories, such as shoes and apparel. The fair value of Zappos'
stock options assumed was determined using the Black-Scholes model. The following table summarizes the consideration paid for Zappos (in millions):
54
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
The purchase price was allocated to the tangible assets and intangible assets acquired
and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values on the acquisition date, with the remaining unallocated purchase price recorded as goodwill. The fair value assigned to identifiable intangible assets acquired has been determined
primarily by using the income approach. Purchased identifiable intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line and accelerated basis over their respective useful lives. The following summarizes the allocation of the Zappos purchase price (in millions):
Zappos' financial results have been included in our consolidated statements of income as of November 1, 2009. The following pro
forma financial information presents the results as if the Zappos acquisition had occurred at the beginning of each year presented (in millions):
We acquired certain additional companies during 2009 for an aggregate purchase price
of $26 million, resulting in goodwill of $16 million and acquired intangible assets of $5 million. The results of operations of each of the businesses acquired have been included in our consolidated results from each transactions closing date
forward. The effect of these acquisitions on consolidated net sales and operating income during 2009 was not significant. 2008 and 2007 Acquisition Activity We acquired certain companies during 2008 for an aggregate purchase price
of $432 million, resulting in goodwill of $210 million and acquired intangible assets of $162 million. We acquired certain
companies during 2007 for an aggregate purchase price of $33 million, resulting in goodwill of $21 million and acquired intangible assets of $18 million. We also made principal payments of $13 million on acquired debt in connection with one of
these acquisitions. The results of operations of each of the businesses acquired in 2008 and 2007 have been included in our
consolidated results from each transaction closing date forward. The effect of these acquisitions on consolidated net sales and operating income during 2008 and 2007 was not significant.
55
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Goodwill The following summarizes our goodwill activity in 2009 (in millions):
At December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, approximately 9% and 22% of our acquired goodwill related to our International
segment. Intangible Assets Acquired intangible assets, included within "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets, consist of the following:
Amortization expense for acquired intangibles was $48 million, $29 million, and $13 million in 2009, 2008, and 2007. Expected future amortization expense of acquired intangible assets as of
December 31, 2009 is as follows (in millions):
56
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Note 5--LONG-TERM DEBT Our long-term debt is summarized as follows:
In February 2008 our Board of Directors authorized a debt repurchase program,
replacing our previous debt repurchase authorization in its entirety, and pursuant to which we redeemed for cash the remaining EUR240 million ($319 million based on the Euro to U.S. Dollar exchange rate on the date of redemption) in
principal of our 6.875% PEACS in 2009, and we redeemed the remaining principal amount of $899 million of our outstanding 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes in 2008. Other long-term debt relates to amounts borrowed to fund certain international operations. Note 6--OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES Our other long-term liabilities are summarized as follows:
Tax Contingencies As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, we have provided tax reserves for tax contingencies, inclusive of accrued interest and penalties, of
approximately $202 million and $144 million for U.S. and foreign income taxes. These contingencies primarily relate to transfer pricing, state income taxes, and research and development credits. See "Note 10--Income Taxes" for
discussion of tax contingencies.
57
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Capital Leases Certain of our equipment fixed assets, primarily related to technology infrastructure, have been acquired under capital leases. Long-term
capital lease obligations are as follows:
Construction Liabilities We capitalize construction in progress and record a corresponding long-term liability for certain lease agreements, including our Seattle,
Washington corporate office space subject to leases scheduled to begin upon completion of development between 2010 and 2013. For build-to-suit lease arrangements where we are involved in the construction of structural improvements prior to the commencement of the lease or take some level of construction risk, we are considered the owner of the assets during the
construction period. Accordingly, as the landlord incurs the construction project costs, the assets and corresponding financial obligation are recorded in "Fixed assets, net" and "Other long-term liabilities" on our consolidated
balance sheet. Once the construction is completed, if the lease meets certain "sale-leaseback" criteria, we will remove the asset and related financial obligation from the balance sheet and treat the building lease as an operating lease.
If upon completion of construction, the project does not meet the "sale-leaseback" criteria, the leased property will be treated as a capital lease for financial reporting purposes. The remainder of our other long-term liabilities primarily include deferred tax liabilities, unearned revenue, asset retirement obligations,
and deferred rental liabilities. Note 7--COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Commitments We lease office, fulfillment center, and data center facilities and fixed assets under non-cancelable operating and capital leases. Rental expense under operating lease agreements was $171 million, $158 million, and $141 million for 2009,
2008, and 2007. In December 2007, we entered into a series of leases and other agreements for the lease of corporate office
space to be developed in Seattle, Washington with initial terms of up to 16 years commencing on completion of development between 2010 and 2013, with options to extend for two five-year periods. We expect to occupy approximately 1.7 million
square feet of office space. We also have an option to lease up to an additional approximately 500,000 square feet at rates based on fair market values at the time the option is exercised, subject to certain conditions. In addition, if interest
rates exceed a certain threshold, we have the option to provide financing for some of the buildings.
58
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders
for inventory purchases that support normal operations, as of December 31, 2009:
Pledged Securities We have pledged or otherwise restricted a portion of our cash and marketable securities as collateral for standby letters of credit, guarantees, debt, and real estate leases. We classify cash and
marketable securities with use restrictions of twelve months or longer as non-current "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets. The amount required to be pledged for certain real estate lease agreements changes over the life of
our leases based on our credit rating and changes in our market capitalization. Information about collateral required to be pledged under these agreements is as follows:
Legal Proceedings The Company is involved from time to time in claims, proceedings and litigation, including the following: In June 2001, Audible, Inc., our subsidiary acquired in March 2008, was named as a defendant in a securities class-action filed in United States District Court for the Southern District of New York
related to its
59
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
initial public offering in July 1999. The lawsuit also named certain of the offering's underwriters, as well as Audible's officers and directors as defendants. Approximately 300
other issuers and their underwriters have had similar suits filed against them, all of which are included in a single coordinated proceeding in the Southern District of New York. The complaints allege that the prospectus and the registration
statement for Audible's offering failed to disclose that the underwriters allegedly solicited and received "excessive" commissions from investors and that some investors allegedly agreed with the underwriters to buy additional shares
in the aftermarket in order to inflate the price of Audible's stock. Audible and its officers and directors were named in the suits pursuant to Section 11 of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, and other related provisions. The complaints seek unspecified damages, attorney and expert fees, and other unspecified litigation costs. In March 2009, all parties, including Audible, reached a settlement of these class actions
that would resolve this dispute entirely with no payment required from Audible. The settlement was approved by the Court in October 2009, and that settlement is currently under appeal to the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Beginning in March 2003, we were served with complaints filed in several different states, including Illinois, by a private litigant,
Beeler, Schad & Diamond, P.C., purportedly on behalf of the state governments under various state False Claims Acts. The complaints allege that we (along with other companies with which we have commercial agreements) wrongfully failed to
collect and remit sales and use taxes for sales of personal property to customers in those states and knowingly created records and statements falsely stating we were not required to collect or remit such taxes. In December 2006, we learned that one
additional complaint was filed in the state of Illinois by a different private litigant, Matthew T. Hurst, alleging similar violations of the Illinois state law. All of the complaints seek injunctive relief, unpaid taxes, interest, attorneys'
fees, civil penalties of up to $10,000 per violation, and treble or punitive damages under the various state False Claims Acts. It is possible that we have been or will be named in similar cases in other states as well. We dispute the allegations of
wrongdoing in these complaints and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in these matters. In December 2005, Registrar
Systems LLC filed a complaint against us and Target Corporation for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Colorado. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including the method by which Amazon.com
enables customers to use Amazon.com account information on websites that Amazon.com operates for third parties, such as Target.com, infringes two patents obtained by Registrar Systems purporting to cover methods and apparatuses for a "World
Wide Web Registration Information Processing System" (U.S. Patent Nos. 5,790,785 and 6,823,327) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages in an amount no less than a reasonable royalty, prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys'
fees. In September 2006, the Court entered an order staying the lawsuit pending the outcome of the Patent and Trademark Office's re-examination of the patents in suit. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing in this complaint and intend to
vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In August 2006, Cordance Corporation filed a complaint against us for patent
infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including our 1-Click ordering system, infringes a patent obtained by Cordance purporting to cover an
"Object-Based Online Transaction Infrastructure" (U.S. Patent No. 6,757,710) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages in an amount no less than a reasonable royalty, treble damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment
interest, costs, and attorneys' fees. In response, we asserted a declaratory judgment counterclaim in the same action alleging that a service that Cordance has advertised its intent to launch infringes a patent owned by us entitled
"Networked Personal Contact Manager" (U.S. Patent No. 6,269,369). In August 2009, the case was tried and the jury ruled that Amazon was not liable on Cordance's claims. An appeal is expected. In October 2007, Digital Reg of Texas, LLC filed a complaint against our subsidiary, Audible, Inc., and several other defendants in the
United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint
60
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
alleges that Audible's digital rights management technology infringes a patent obtained by Digital Reg purporting to cover a system for "Regulating Access to Digital Content" (U.S.
Patent No. 6,389,541) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, enhanced damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment and post-judgment interest, costs and attorneys' fees. In November 2009, we obtained a license to the
patent in suit and were dismissed from the lawsuit with prejudice. In January 2009, we learned that the United States Postal
Service, including the Postal Service Office of Inspector General, is investigating our compliance with Postal Service rules, and we are cooperating. In March 2009, Discovery Communications, Inc. filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges that our Kindle
and Kindle 2 wireless reading devices infringe a patent owned by Discovery purporting to cover an "Electronic Book Security and Copyright Protection System" (U.S. Patent No. 7,298,851) and seeks monetary damages, a continuing royalty
sufficient to compensate Discovery for any future infringement, treble damages, costs and attorneys fees. In May 2009, we filed counterclaims and an additional lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington
against Discovery alleging infringement of several patents owned by Amazon and requesting a declaration that several Discovery patents, including the one listed above, are invalid and unenforceable. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and
intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In March 2009, the Tobin Family Education and Health Foundation filed a
complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the technology underlying the Amazon Associates program infringes a patent owned by
Tobin purporting to cover a "Method and System for Customizing Marketing Services on Networks Communication with Hypertext Tagging Conventions" (U.S. Patent No. 7,505,913) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, costs and
attorneys fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In April
2009, Parallel Networks, LLC filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our website technology infringes a patent owned
by Parallel Networks purporting to cover a "Method And Apparatus For Client-Server Communication Using a Limited Capability Client Over A Low-Speed Communications Link" (U.S. Patent No. 6,446,111) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary
damages, costs and attorneys fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In May 2009, Big Baboon, Inc. filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our third-party selling and
payments technology infringes a patent owned by Big Baboon, Inc. purporting to cover an "Integrated Business-to-Business Web Commerce and Business Automation System" (U.S. Patent No. 6,115,690) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary
damages, treble damages, costs and attorneys fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In June 2009, Bedrock Computer Technologies LLC filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among
other things, that our website technology infringes a patent owned by Bedrock purporting to cover a "Method And Apparatus For Information Storage and Retrieval Using a Hashing Technique with External Chaining and On-the-Fly Removal of Expired
Data" (U.S. Patent Nos. 5,893,120) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, enhanced damages, a compulsory future royalty, costs and attorneys fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves
in this matter.
61
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
In September 2009, SpeedTrack, Inc. filed a complaint against us for patent infringement
in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our website technology infringes a patent owned by SpeedTrack purporting to cover a "Method For Accessing Computer
Files and Data, Using Linked Categories Assigned to Each Data File Record on Entry of the Data File Record" (U.S. Patent Nos. 5,544,360) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, enhanced damages, costs and attorneys fees. In November
2009, the Court entered an order staying the lawsuit pending the outcome of the Patent and Trademark Office's re-examination of the patent in suit and the resolution of similar litigation against another party. We dispute the allegations of
wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In September 2009, Alcatel-Lucent USA Inc. filed a
complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges that our website technology and digital content distribution systems infringe six of Alcatel-Lucent's
patents and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, a continuing royalty sufficient to compensate Alcatel-Lucent for any future infringement, treble damages, costs and attorneys fees. In January 2010, we filed counterclaims against Alcatel-Lucent
alleging infringement of a patent owned by Amazon and that the patents asserted by Alcatel-Lucent are invalid and unenforceable. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In October 2009, Eolas Technologies Incorporated filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court
for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our website technology infringes two patents owned by Eolas purporting to cover "Distributed Hypermedia Method for Automatically Invoking External Application
Providing Interaction and Display of Embedded Objects within a Hypermedia Document" (U.S. Patent No. 5,838,906) and "Distributed Hypermedia Method and System for Automatically Invoking External Application Providing Interaction and
Display of Embedded Objects within a Hypermedia Document" (U.S. Patent No. 7,599,985) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, costs and attorneys fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend
ourselves in this matter. In October 2009, Leon Stambler filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our use of secure online payments systems and services infringes two patents owned by Stambler purporting to cover a "Method for Securing
Information Relevant to a Transaction" (U.S. Patent Nos. 5,793,302 and 5,974,148) and seeks monetary damages, costs and attorneys fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter.
In December 2009, Nazomi Communications, Inc. filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the processor core in our Kindle 2 device infringes two patents owned by Nazomi purporting to cover "Java virtual machine hardware for RISC and
CISC processors" and "Java hardware accelerator using microcode engine" (U.S. Patent Nos. 7,080,362 and 7,225,436) and seeks monetary damages, injunctive relief, costs and attorneys fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing
and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. Depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution
of some or all of these matters could materially affect our business, results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. See also "Note 10--Income Taxes."
62
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Inventory Suppliers During 2009, no vendor accounted for 10% or more of our inventory purchases. We generally do not have long-term contracts or arrangements
with our vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits. Note
8--STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY Preferred Stock We have authorized 500 million shares of $0.01 par value Preferred Stock. No preferred stock was outstanding for any period presented.
Common Stock Common shares outstanding plus shares underlying outstanding stock awards totaled 461 million, 446 million, and 435 million at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. These totals include
all stock-based awards outstanding, without regard for estimated forfeitures, consisting of vested and unvested awards. Common shares outstanding increased in 2009 due primarily to issuance of stock to acquire Zappos and vesting of restricted stock
units. Stock Repurchase Activity We did not repurchase any of our common stock in 2009. We repurchased 2.2 million shares of common stock for $100 million in 2008 under the $1 billion repurchase program authorized by our Board of
Directors in February 2008. We repurchased 6.3 million shares of common stock for $248 million in 2007 under the $500 million repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors in August 2006. In January 2010, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $2 billion of our common stock which replaces the
Board's prior authorization. Stock Award Plans Employees vest in restricted stock unit awards over the corresponding service term, generally between two and five years. Stock Award Activity We granted restricted stock units representing 6.0 million, 7.3 million, 7.6 million shares of common stock during 2009, 2008, and 2007 with a per share weighted average fair value of
$79.24, $72.21, and $47.04.
63
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
The following summarizes our restricted stock unit activity (in millions):
Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units at December 31, 2009 is
as follows (in millions):
As of December 31, 2009, there was $415 million of net unrecognized compensation
cost related to unvested stock-based compensation arrangements. This compensation is recognized on an accelerated basis resulting in approximately half of the compensation expected to be expensed in the next twelve months, and has a weighted average
recognition period of 1.2 years. During 2009 and 2008, the fair value of restricted stock units that vested was $551 million
and $362 million. As matching contributions under our 401(k) savings plan, we granted 0.1 million shares of common stock
in both 2009 and 2008. Shares granted as matching contributions under our 401(k) plan are included in outstanding common stock when issued. Common Stock Available for Future Issuance At December 31, 2009,
common stock available for future issuance to employees is 149 million shares.
64
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Note 9--OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) The components of other comprehensive income (loss) are as follows:
Balances within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are as follows:
65
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Note 10--INCOME TAXES In 2009, 2008 and 2007 we recorded net tax provisions of $253 million, $247 million, and $184 million. A majority of this provision is
non-cash. We have current tax benefits and net operating losses relating to excess stock-based compensation that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. As such, cash taxes paid, net of refunds, were $48 million, $53 million, and $24
million for 2009, 2008, and 2007. The components of the provision for income taxes, net are as follows:
U.S. and international components of income before income taxes are as follows:
The items accounting for differences between income taxes computed
at the federal statutory rate and the provision recorded for income taxes are as follows:
66
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
The effective tax rate in 2009, 2008, and 2007 was lower than the 35% U.S. federal
statutory rate primarily due to earnings of our subsidiaries outside of the U.S. in jurisdictions where our effective tax rate is lower than in the U.S. Included in the total tax provision as a discrete item during 2008 is the impact related to the
$53 million noncash gain associated with the sale of our European DVD rental assets. This gain was taxed at rates substantially below the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are as follows:
Tax Contingencies We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax
positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary
67
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties based on estimates of
whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. These reserves are established when we believe that certain positions might be challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. We adjust these
reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the outcome of tax audits. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate. The reconciliation of our tax contingencies is as follows (in millions):
Due to the nature of our business operations we expect the total amount of tax contingencies for prior period tax positions will grow in 2010 in comparable amounts to 2009. We do not believe it is reasonably possible that the total amount
of unrecognized tax benefits will significantly decrease in 2010. The increase to current period tax positions in 2008 resulted primarily from acquisition-related activity and new regulations. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had accrued interest and penalties, net of federal income tax benefit, related to tax
contingencies of $17 million and $14 million. Interest and penalties, net of federal income tax benefit, recognized for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 was $3 million and $5 million. We are under examination, or may be subject to examination, by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") for calendar years 2005
through 2009. Additionally, any net operating losses that were generated in prior years and utilized in 2005 through 2009 may also be subject to examination by the IRS. We are under examination, or may be subject to examination, in the following
major jurisdictions for the years specified: Kentucky for 2005 through 2009, France for 2006 through 2009, Germany for 2003 through 2009, Luxembourg for 2004 through 2009, and the United Kingdom for 2003 through 2009. In addition, in 2007, Japanese
tax authorities assessed income tax, including penalties and interest, of approximately $120 million against one of our U.S. subsidiaries for the years 2003 through 2005. We believe that these claims are without merit and are disputing the
assessment. Further proceedings on the assessment have been stayed during negotiations between U.S. and Japanese authorities over the double taxation issues the assessment raises, and we have provided bank guarantees to suspend enforcement of the
assessment. We also may be subject to income tax examination by Japanese tax authorities for 2006 through 2009.
68
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Note 11--SEGMENT INFORMATION We have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. We present our segment information along the
same lines that our chief executive reviews our operating results in assessing performance and allocating resources. We
allocate to segment results the operating expenses "Fulfillment," "Marketing," "Technology and content," and "General and administrative," but exclude from our allocations the portions of these expense lines
attributable to stock-based compensation. We do not allocate the line item "Other operating expense (income), net" to our segment operating results. A significant majority of our costs for "Technology and content" are incurred in
the United States and most of these costs are allocated to our North America segment. There are no internal revenue transactions between our reporting segments. North America The North America segment consists of amounts earned from
retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through North America-focused websites such as and . This segment includes export sales from and
. International The International segment consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through internationally focused websites such as
, , , , and . This segment includes export sales from these internationally based sites (including export sales from these sites to customers
in the U.S. and Canada), but excludes export sales from and .
69
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Information on reportable segments and reconciliation to consolidated net income is as
follows:
Net sales shipped to customers outside of the U.S. represented approximately half of
net sales for 2009, 2008, and 2007. Net sales from , , and each represented 13% to 17% of consolidated net sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007. Total assets, by segment, reconciled to consolidated amounts were (in millions):
70
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Fixed assets, net, by segment, reconciled to consolidated amounts were (in millions):
Depreciation expense, by segment, is as follows (in millions):
Note 12--QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) The following tables contain selected unaudited statement of operations information for each quarter of 2009 and 2008. The following
information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Our business
is affected by seasonality, which historically has resulted in higher sales volume during our fourth quarter. Unaudited
quarterly results are as follows (in millions, except per share data):
71
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
72
Table of Contents
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with
Accountants On Accounting and Financial Disclosure None. Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures We carried out an evaluation required by the 1934 Act, under the supervision and with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, of the effectiveness of the
design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the 1934 Act, as of December 31, 2009. Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that, as
of December 31, 2009, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the 1934 Act is recorded, processed,
summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and to provide reasonable assurance that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and
principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. Management's
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the 1934 Act. Management has assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009 based on criteria established in
Internal Control--Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. As a result of this assessment, management concluded that, as of December 31, 2009, our internal control over financial
reporting was effective in providing reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Ernst & Young has independently assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and its report is included below. Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There were no changes
in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2009 that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Limitations on Controls Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting are designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives as specified above. Management does not
expect, however, that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all error and fraud. Any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, is based upon certain assumptions
and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. Further, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and
instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected.
73
Table of Contents
Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
The Board of Directors and Stockholders Amazon.com, Inc. We have audited Amazon.com, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control--Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Amazon.com, Inc.'s management is responsible
for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion. A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could
have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. In our opinion, Amazon.com, Inc. maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the COSO criteria. We have also
audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Amazon.com, Inc. as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of
operations, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009 of Amazon.com, Inc. and our report dated January 28, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. /s/ Ernst & Young LLP Seattle, Washington January 28, 2010
74
Table of Contents
None. PART III
Information regarding our Executive Officers required by Item 10 of Part III is set forth in Item 1 of Part I
"Business--Executive Officers and Directors." Information required by Item 10 of Part III regarding our Directors and any material changes to the process by which security holders may recommend nominees to the Board of Directors
is included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and is incorporated herein by reference. Information relating to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and to compliance with Section 16(a) of the 1934
Act is set forth in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. To the extent permissible under Nasdaq rules, we intend to disclose amendments to our Code of Business Conduct and
Ethics, as well as waivers of the provisions thereof, on our investor relations website under the heading "Corporate Governance" at
Information required by Item 11 of Part III is included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
Information required by Item 12 of Part III is included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and
is incorporated herein by reference.
Information required by Item 13 of Part III is included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
Information required by Item 14 of Part III is included in our Proxy Statement relating our 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. PART IV
(a) List of Documents Filed as a Part of This Report: (1)
Index to Consolidated Financial Statements: Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years ended
December 31, 2009 Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the three years ended
December 31, 2009
75
Table of Contents
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for each of the three years ended December 31, 2009
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (2) Index to Exhibits See exhibits listed under the Exhibit Index below.
76
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report
to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, as of January 28, 2010.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated as of January 28, 2010.
77
Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX
Table of Contents
2