.
3
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (in millions, except per share data) (unaudited)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
4
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in millions, except per share data)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
5
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (unaudited) Note 1 -- Accounting Policies
Unaudited Interim Financial Information We have prepared the accompanying consolidated financial statements pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for interim financial reporting. These
consolidated financial statements are unaudited and, in our opinion, include all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments and accruals necessary for a fair presentation of our consolidated balance sheets, operating results, and cash
flows for the periods presented. Operating results for the periods presented are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for 2006 due to seasonal and other factors. Certain information and footnote disclosures normally
included in financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") have been omitted in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. These consolidated financial
statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in our 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period
presentation. Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and those entities (relating to ) in which we have a variable interest. Intercompany
balances and transactions have been eliminated. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited to, valuation of investments, receivables valuation, sales
returns, incentive discount offers, inventory valuation, depreciable lives of fixed assets, internally-developed software, valuation of acquired intangibles, income taxes, stock-based compensation, and contingencies. Actual results could differ
materially from those estimates. Earnings per Share Basic earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares. Diluted earnings per share is calculated using our
weighted-average outstanding common shares including the dilutive effect of stock awards. Using the treasury stock method, the effect of stock awards on the weighted average shares used in the computation of earnings per share was 9 million and
14 million shares for Q1 2006 and Q1 2005. Our convertible debt instruments are excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per
share as their effect is antidilutive. Business Combinations We acquired one company during Q1 2006 for a purchase price of $47 million, including a $28 million cash payment in Q1 2006 and a $19 million amount due
in 2007. Acquired intangibles totaled $14 million and have estimated useful lives of between one and ten years. The excess of purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired was $33 million and is classified as "Goodwill" on
our consolidated balance sheets. The results of operations of the acquired business have been included in our consolidated results from the closing date forward. The effect of this acquisition on consolidated net sales and operating income during Q1
2006 was not significant.
6
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (Continued) (unaudited)
Accounts Receivable, Net and Other Current Assets Included in "Accounts receivable, net and other current assets" are prepaid expenses of $14 million and $15 million at March 31, 2006 and
December 31, 2005, representing advance payments for insurance, licenses, and other miscellaneous expenses. Internal-use
Software and Website Development Costs incurred to develop software for internal use are required to be capitalized and amortized
over the two year estimated useful life of the software in accordance with SOP 98-1, Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use. Costs related to design or maintenance of internal-use software are
expensed as incurred. During Q1 2006 and Q1 2005, we capitalized $26 million (including $1 million of stock-based compensation) and $18 million (including $2 million of stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and
website development. Amortization of previously capitalized amounts was $18 million and $10 million. Depreciation of Fixed Assets
Fixed assets include assets such as furniture and fixtures, heavy equipment, technology infrastructure, internal-use software and
website development, and our DVD rental library. Depreciation is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets (generally two years or less for assets such as internal-use software and our DVD rental library, three
years for our technology infrastructure, five years for furniture and fixtures, and ten years for heavy equipment). Depreciation expense is generally classified within the operating expense categories on our consolidated statements of operations,
and certain assets, such as our DVD rental library, are amortized as "Cost of sales." Depreciation expense for fixed assets was $38 million and $23 million for Q1 2006 and Q1 2005. Other Assets Included in
"Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to deferred issuance charges on our long-term debt, certain equity investments, and other intangibles. At March 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005,
deferred issuance charges were $9 million and $13 million; equity investments were $7 million and $8 million; and other intangibles, net were $23 million and $11 million. Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities Included in "Accrued expenses and other
current liabilities" at March 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005 are liabilities of $119 million and $131 million for unredeemed gift certificates. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue is recorded when payments are received or currently due in
advance of performing our service obligations and is recognized ratably over the service period. Unearned revenue was $54 million and $48 million at March 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005. These amounts are included in "Accrued expenses
and other current liabilities" on our consolidated balance sheets. Income Taxes Income tax expense includes U.S. and international income taxes, plus the provision for U.S. taxes on undistributed earnings of international subsidiaries
not deemed to be permanently invested.
7
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (Continued) (unaudited)
Certain items of income and expense are not reported in tax returns and financial statements in the
same year. The tax effect of such temporary differences is reported as deferred income taxes. See Note 8 -- "Income Taxes." Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, requires
that deferred tax assets be evaluated for future realization and be reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe a portion will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our
deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience by taxing jurisdiction, expectations of future taxable income, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. Significant
judgment is required in making this assessment, and it is very difficult to predict when, if ever, our assessment may conclude that the remaining portion of our deferred tax assets are realizable. In accordance with SFAS 109, we allocate our
valuation allowance to current and long-term deferred tax assets on a pro-rata basis. Shipping Activities Outbound shipping charges to customers are included in "Net sales" and were $129 million and $108 million for Q1 2006 and Q1 2005. Outbound
shipping-related costs are included in "Cost of sales" and totaled $197 million and $163 million for Q1 2006 and Q1 2005. The net cost to us of shipping activities was $68 million and $55 million for Q1 2006 and Q1 2005. Stock-Based Compensation In
Q1 2005, we adopted SFAS 123(R) using the modified prospective method, which requires measurement of compensation cost for all stock-based awards at fair value on date of grant and recognition of compensation over the service period for awards
expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock, and the fair value of stock options is determined using the Black-Scholes
valuation model, which is consistent with our valuation techniques previously utilized for options in footnote disclosures required under SFAS 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, as amended by SFAS 148, Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation -- Transition and Disclosure. Such value is recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method under SFAS 123(R). The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest
requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating
expected forfeitures, including types of awards, employee class, and historical experience. Actual results, and future changes in estimates, may differ substantially from our current estimates. The adoption of SFAS 123(R) resulted in a cumulative benefit from accounting change of $26 million in Q1 2005, which reflects the net cumulative impact
of estimating future forfeitures in the determination of period expense, rather than recording forfeitures when they occur as previously permitted. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), cash retained as a result of tax deductions relating to stock-based compensation was presented in our consolidated statements of cash flows as operating cash flows, along with other tax cash flows, in
accordance with the provisions of Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) No. 00-15, Classification in the Statement of Cash Flows of the Income Tax Benefit Received by a Company upon Exercise of a Nonqualified Employee Stock Option. SFAS 123(R)
supersedes EITF 00-15, amends SFAS 95, Statement of Cash Flows, and requires tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions to be prospectively presented in our consolidated statements of cash flows as financing cash
flows. Tax benefits resulting from stock-based compensation deductions in excess of amounts reported for financial reporting purposes were $7 million and $1 million for Q1 2006 and Q1 2005, with these amounts treated as financing cash
flows instead of operating cash flows.
8
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (Continued) (unaudited)
Note 2 -- Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities As of March 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005 our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $1.3 billion and $2.0 billion, at fair
value, primarily consisted of cash, investment grade securities and AAA-rated money market mutual funds. At March 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005 amounts held in foreign currencies were $558 million and $905 million, primarily Euros,
British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. We are required to pledge a portion of our marketable securities as collateral for standby letters of
credit that guarantee certain of our contractual obligations, a line of credit, and real estate lease agreements. See "Note 4 -- Commitments and Contingencies." Note 3 -- Long-Term Debt and Other Our long-term debt and other long-term liabilities are
summarized as follows:
9
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (Continued) (unaudited)
Note 4 -- Commitments and Contingencies Commitments We lease office
and fulfillment center facilities and fixed assets under non-cancelable operating and capital leases. Rental expense under operating lease agreements was $39 million and $15 million for Q1 2006 and Q1 2005. The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders for purchases that support normal operations, as of March 31,
2006:
10
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (Continued) (unaudited)
Pledged Securities We are required to pledge a portion of our marketable securities as collateral for standby letters of credit that guarantee certain of our contractual
obligations, a line of credit, and real estate lease agreements. The amount required to be pledged for certain real estate lease agreements changes over the life of our leases, and with fluctuations in our market capitalization and our credit
rating. Information about collateral required to be pledged under these agreements is as follows:
Legal
Proceedings The Company is involved from time to time in claims, proceedings and litigation, including the following:
In October 2002, Gary Gerlinger, individually and on behalf of all other similarly situated consumers in the United States who, during the period from
August 1, 2001 to the present, purchased books online from either Amazon.com or Borders.com, instituted an action against us and Borders in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The complaint alleges that the
agreement pursuant to which an affiliate of Amazon.com operates Borders.com as a co-branded site violates federal anti-trust laws, California statutory law, and the common law of unjust enrichment. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages,
including treble damages or statutory damages where applicable, attorneys' fees, costs, and disbursements, disgorgement of all sums obtained by allegedly wrongful acts, interest, and declaratory relief. In November 2005, the Court dismissed all
of the plaintiff's claims with prejudice. The plaintiff is appealing that dismissal. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing in this complaint, and we will continue to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. Beginning in March 2003, we were served with complaints filed in several different states, including Illinois, by a private litigant purportedly on
behalf of the state governments under various state False Claims Acts. The complaints allege that we (along with other companies with which we have commercial agreements) wrongfully failed to collect and remit sales and use taxes for sales of
personal property to customers in those states and knowingly created records and statements falsely stating we were not required to collect or remit such taxes. The complaints seek injunctive relief, unpaid taxes, interest, attorneys' fees,
civil penalties of up to $10,000 per violation, and treble or punitive damages under the various state False Claims Acts. It is possible that we have been or will be named in similar cases in other states as well. We do not believe that we are
liable under existing laws and regulations for any failure to collect sales or other taxes relating to Internet sales and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in these matters.
11
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (Continued) (unaudited)
In April 2004, we learned that the French authorities are investigating our DVD sales practices in
France, and we are cooperating. In May 2004, Toysrus.com LLC filed a complaint against us for breach of contract in the Superior Court of
New Jersey. The complaint alleged that we breached our commercial agreement with Toysrus.com LLC by selling, and by permitting other third parties to sell, products that Toysrus.com LLC alleged it has an exclusive right to sell on our website. We
disputed the allegations in the complaint and brought counterclaims alleging breach of contract and seeking damages and declaratory relief. The trial of both parties' claims concluded in November 2005. In March 2006, the Court entered a
judgment in favor of Toysrus.com LLC, terminating the contract but declining to award damages to either party. We are appealing the decision to terminate, and we have asked the appellate court to stay the judgment while our appeal is considered.
In September 2004, BTG International Inc. filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the
District of Delaware. The complaint alleged that our website technology, including our Associates program, infringes two patents obtained by BTG purporting to cover methods and apparatuses for "Attaching Navigational History Information to
Universal Resource Locator Links on a World Wide Web Page" (U.S. Patent No. 5,712,979) and for "Tracking the Navigation Path of a User on the World Wide Web" (U.S. Patent No. 5,717,860) and sought injunctive relief, monetary
damages in an amount no less than a reasonable royalty, treble damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys' fees. In February 2006, the parties entered into a settlement of the lawsuit that included,
among other things, the grant of a non-exclusive license to Amazon.com for use and practice of the patents at issue. In October 2004
Cendant Publishing, Inc. filed a complaint against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleged that our website technology, including our recommendations features, infringes a
patent obtained by Cendant purporting to cover a "System and Method for Providing Recommendation of Goods or Services Based on Recorded Purchasing History" (U.S. Patent No. 6,782,370) and sought injunctive relief, monetary damages in
an amount no less than a reasonable royalty, prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys' fees. In February 2005, Cendant voluntarily withdrew the complaint without prejudice. In June 2005, however, Cendant re-filed a new complaint containing
substantially the same claims. In response, we filed a countersuit in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington (since transferred to the District of Delaware) alleging that Cendant's parent, Cendant Corporation,
and its affiliates Orbitz, Inc., Budget Rent A Car System, Inc., Avis Rent A Car System, Inc., and Trilegiant Corporation infringe certain patents owned by us and our subsidiary, A9.com. We dispute Cendant's allegations of wrongdoing in its
complaint and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in these matters. In December 2005, Registrar Systems LLC filed a complaint against us
and Target Corporation for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Colorado. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including the method by which Amazon.com enables customers to use Amazon.com account
information on websites that Amazon.com operates for third parties, such as Target.com, infringes two patents obtained by Registrar Systems purporting to cover methods and apparatuses for a "World Wide Web Registration Information Processing
System" (U.S. Patent Nos. 5,790,785 and 6,823,327) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages in an amount no less than a reasonable royalty, prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys' fees. We dispute the allegations of
wrongdoing in this complaint and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. Depending on the amount and the timing, an
unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could materially affect our business, results of operations, financial position, or cash flows in a particular period.
12
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (Continued) (unaudited)
Note 5 -- Stockholders' Equity Stock Award Activity We
granted stock awards, which consist primarily of restricted stock units, representing 0.8 million and 0.5 million shares of common stock during Q1 2006 and Q1 2005 with a per share weighted average fair value of $40.61 and $39.48.
Common shares underlying outstanding stock awards were as follows:
Common shares outstanding, plus shares underlying outstanding stock options and restricted stock units, was 438 million at March 31, 2006 and
December 31, 2005. These totals include all stock-based awards outstanding, without regard for estimated forfeitures, consisting of vested and unvested awards, and in-the-money and out-of-the-money stock options. The following table summarizes our restricted stock unit activity for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 (in millions):
Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units at March 31, 2006 is as follows (in
millions):
As of March 31, 2006, there was $143 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to
unvested stock-based compensation arrangements. This compensation is recognized on an accelerated basis resulting in approximately half of the compensation expected to be expensed in the next twelve months, and a weighted average recognition period
of 1.2 years.
13
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (Continued) (unaudited)
Note 6 -- Comprehensive Income Comprehensive income was $54 million and $70 million for Q1 2006 and Q1 2005. The primary differences between net income as reported and comprehensive
income are foreign currency translation adjustments and changes in unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities. Note 7 --
Remeasurements and Other Remeasurements and other consisted of the following:
Note 8 -- Income Taxes Our tax provision for interim periods is determined using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate. The effective tax rates in Q1 2006 and Q1 2005 were higher than the 35% statutory rate, resulting from steps we
initiated to establish our European headquarters in Luxembourg, which we expect will benefit our effective tax rate over time. Associated with the establishment of our European headquarters, we transferred certain of our operating assets in 2005 and
2006, from the U.S. to international locations. These transfers resulted in taxable income and an increase in our effective tax rate. We expect the transfers will result in an effective tax rate for financial reporting purposes higher than the
statutory rate throughout 2006. Since we have deferred tax assets related to our net operating losses (NOLs), these asset transfers are not expected to have a significant impact on our cash taxes paid in 2006. Cash paid for income taxes was $5
million and $3 million in Q1 2006 and Q1 2005. Note 9 -- Segment Information We have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. We present our segment information along the same lines
that our chief executive reviews our operating results in assessing performance and allocating resources. We allocate to segment results
the operating expenses "Fulfillment," "Marketing," "Technology and content," and "General and administrative," but exclude from our allocations the portions of these expense lines attributable to stock-based
compensation. Additionally, we do not allocate the line item "Other operating expense" to our segment operating results. A significant majority of our costs for "Technology and content" are incurred in the United States and most
of these costs are allocated to our North America segment. There are no internal revenue transactions between our reporting segments. North America The North America segment consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including
from third-party sellers) and subscriptions through North America-focused websites such as
14
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (Continued) (unaudited)
and from North America-focused Syndicated Stores, such as from our mail-order tool catalog phone orders; from
our Amazon Prime membership program; and from non-retail activities such as North America-focused Amazon Enterprise Solutions, marketing, and promotional agreements. This segment includes export sales from and
. International The International segment consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from third-party sellers) and subscriptions through internationally focused websites such as
, , , , and from internationally focused Syndicated Stores; from our DVD rental service and from non-retail activities such as internationally
focused marketing and promotional agreements. This segment includes export sales from these internationally based sites (including export sales from these sites to customers in the U.S. and Canada), but excludes export sales from
and . Information on reportable segments and reconciliation to consolidated net income is as
follows:
15
Table of Contents
Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance, industry prospects or future results of operations or financial position, made in this Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes, expects, future, intends, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect management's current expectations
and are inherently uncertain. Actual results could differ materially for a variety of reasons, including, among others, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and consumer spending, world events, the rate of
growth of the Internet and online commerce, the amount that Amazon.com invests in new business opportunities and the timing of those investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of net sales derived from products as compared with
services, competition, management of growth, potential fluctuations in operating results, international growth and expansion, outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, fulfillment center optimization, risks of inventory management, seasonality, the
degree to which the Company enters into, maintains, and develops commercial agreements, acquisitions, and strategic transactions, payments risks, and risks of fulfillment throughput and productivity. These risks and uncertainties, as well as other
risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ significantly from management's expectations, are described in greater detail in Item 1A of Part II, "Risk Factors," which, along with the previous discussion,
describes some, but not all, of the factors that could cause actual results to differ significantly from management's expectations. Overview
Our primary source of revenue is the sale of a wide range of products and services to customers. The products offered on our
websites include products we have purchased from distributors, publishers, and manufacturers and products offered by third parties on our websites. Generally, we recognize gross revenue from items we sell from our inventory and recognize our net
share of revenue of items sold by third parties. We offer services such as Amazon Enterprise Solutions, co-branded credit cards, and miscellaneous marketing and promotional offers. Our financial focus is on long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flow1. Free cash flow is driven primarily by increasing operating income and efficiently managing
working capital and capital expenditures. Increases in operating income result from increases in sales through our websites and a focus on keeping our operating costs low, offset by investments we make in longer-term strategic initiatives including
hiring additional software engineers and computer scientists. To increase sales, we focus on improving all aspects of the customer experience, including lowering prices, improving availability, offering faster delivery times, increasing selection,
expanding product information, improving ease of use, and earning customer trust. We generally focus on gross profit and operating profit dollars rather than margin percentages. Because we have deferred tax assets from net operating loss
carryforwards, the free cash flow impact from income taxes paid is less than our income tax provision. We also seek to efficiently
manage shareholder dilution while maintaining the flexibility to issue shares for strategic purposes, such as financings and aligning employee interests with shareholders'. We utilize restricted stock units as our primary vehicle for equity
compensation because we believe they better align the interests of our shareholders and employees. Restricted stock units result in charges to our consolidated statements of operations based on the fair value of the awards at the grant date recorded
over the underlying service periods,
16
Table of Contents
net of estimated cancellations. Total shares outstanding plus outstanding stock awards were 438 million at March 31, 2006 and December 31,
2005. These totals include all stock awards outstanding, without regard for estimated forfeitures, consisting of vested and unvested awards, and in-the-money and out-of-the-money stock options. We seek to reduce our customer experience variable costs per unit and work to leverage our customer experience fixed costs. Our customer
experience variable costs include product costs, payment processing and related transaction costs, picking, packaging, and preparing orders for shipment, transportation, customer service support, and most aspects of our marketing costs. Our customer
experience fixed costs include the costs necessary to build, enhance, and add features to our websites and build and optimize our fulfillment centers. Variable costs generally change directly with sales volume, while fixed costs generally increase
depending on the timing of capacity needs, geographic expansion, and other factors. To decrease our variable costs on a per unit basis and enable us to lower prices for customers, we seek to increase our direct to publisher and manufacturer
sourcing, maximize discounts available to us from suppliers and reduce defects in our processes. To minimize growth in fixed costs, we seek to improve process efficiencies and maintain a lean culture. Because of our model we are able to turn our inventory quickly and have a negative operating cycle2. On average, our high inventory velocity means we generally collect from our customers before
our payments to suppliers come due. Inventory turnover3
was 14 and 15 for Q1 2006 and Q1 2005. We expect some variability in inventory turnover over time since it is affected by several factors, including our product mix, our mix of third-party sales, our continuing focus on in-stock inventory
availability, our future investment in new geographies and product lines, and the extent we choose to utilize outsource fulfillment providers. Accounts payable days4 were 48 and 44 for Q1 2006 and Q1 2005. We expect some variability in accounts payable days over time since it is affected by several
factors, including the mix of product sales, the mix of third-party sales, the mix of suppliers, seasonality, and changes in payment terms over time, including the effect of negotiating better pricing from our suppliers in exchange for shorter
payment terms. Our spending in technology and content will increase as we add computer scientists and software
engineers to continue to improve our process efficiency, enhance the customer experience on our websites and those websites powered by us and invest in several areas of technology including seller platforms, search, web services, and digital
initiatives. We believe that advances in technology, specifically the speed and reduced cost of processing power, the improved consumer experience of the Internet outside of the workplace through lower-cost broadband service to the home, and the
advances of wireless connectivity, will continue to improve the consumer experience on the Internet and increase its ubiquity in people's lives. Our challenge will be to continue to build and deploy innovative and efficient software that will
best take advantage of continued advances in technology. Our financial reporting currency is the U.S. Dollar and changes in
exchange rates significantly affect our reported results and consolidated trends. For example, if the U.S. Dollar weakens year-over-year relative to currencies in our international locations, our consolidated net sales, gross profit, and
operating expenses will be higher than if currencies had remained constant. Likewise, if the U.S. Dollar strengthens year-over-year relative to currencies in our international locations, our consolidated net sales, gross profit, and operating
expenses will be lower than if currencies had remained constant. We believe that our increasing diversification beyond the U.S. economy through our growing international businesses benefits our shareholders over the long term. We also believe it is
important to evaluate our operating results and growth rates before and after the effect of currency changes.
17
Table of Contents
In addition, the remeasurement of our 6.875% PEACS and intercompany balances can result in significant
gains and charges associated with the effect of movements in currency exchange rates. Currency volatilities may continue, which may significantly impact (either positively or negatively) our reported results and consolidated trends and comparisons.
Critical Accounting Judgments The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in the
consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a company's critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of the company's financial condition and results of operations, and
which require it to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and
judgments addressed below. We also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are significant to understanding our results. For additional information, see Item 8 of Part II,
"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data -- Note 1 -- Description of Business and Accounting Policies," of our 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable,
they are based upon information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments, or conditions. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue from product sales or services rendered when the
following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured.
Additionally, revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units of accounting if the deliverables in the arrangement meet the following criteria: the delivered item has value to the customer on a standalone basis; there
is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of undelivered items; and delivery of any undelivered item is probable. We evaluate
the criteria of EITF 99-19, Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal Versus Net as an Agent, in determining whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of product sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions.
Generally, when we are the primary party obligated in a transaction, are subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue is recorded gross. If we are
not primarily obligated and amounts earned are determined using a percentage, a fixed-payment schedule, or a combination of the two, we generally record the net amounts as commissions earned. Under our Syndicated Stores arrangements, we record gross
product sales and costs since we own the inventory, set prices, and are responsible for fulfillment and customer service, and the other business earns a sales commission. Product sales and shipping revenues, net of promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes to customers. Retail items sold to customers are made
pursuant to sales contracts that generally provide for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon our delivery to the carrier. Return allowances, which reduce product revenue by our best estimate of expected product returns, are estimated using
historical experience. Amounts paid in advance for subscription services, including amounts received for online DVD rentals, Amazon Prime, and other membership programs, are deferred and classified as unearned revenue in "Accrued expenses and
other current liabilities" on our consolidated balance sheets and recognized as revenue over the subscription term. We periodically
provide incentive offers to our customers to encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such as percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such as offers for
18
Table of Contents
future discounts subject to a minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a
reduction to the purchase price of the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to purchase price based on estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our
historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are classified as an offsetting amount in "Net sales." Commissions and per-unit fees received from third-party sellers and similar amounts earned through Amazon Enterprise Solutions are recognized when the item is sold by the third-party seller and our collectibility is
reasonably assured. When we are responsible for fulfillment-related services, commissions are recognized when risk of loss and title transfer to the customer. We record an allowance for estimated refunds on such commissions using historical
experience. Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are accounted for using the first-in first-out ("FIFO") method, and are valued at the lower of cost or market value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on
currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. Based on this
evaluation, we adjust the carrying amount of our inventories to lower of cost or market value. We provide fulfillment-related services in
connection with certain of our agreements. In those arrangements, as well as other product sales by third parties, the third-party maintains ownership of the related products. Internal-Use Software and Website Development Included in fixed assets is the capitalized cost of internal-use software and website development, including software used to upgrade and enhance our websites and processes supporting our business. As required by
Statement of Position 98-1, Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use, we capitalize costs incurred during the application development stage of internal-use software and amortize these costs over the
estimated useful life of two years. Costs incurred related to design or maintenance of internal-use software are expensed as incurred. During Q1 2006 and Q1 2005, we capitalized $26 million (including $1 million of stock-based compensation) and $18 million (including $2 million of stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and website
development, which are partially offset by amortization of previously capitalized amounts of $18 million and $10 million. Valuation
of Deferred Tax Assets SFAS 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, requires that deferred tax assets be evaluated for future
realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe a portion will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets including our recent cumulative
earnings experience by taxing jurisdiction, expectations of future taxable income, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS 109, we allocate our
valuation allowance to current and long-term deferred tax assets on a pro-rata basis. Stock-Based Compensation
In accordance with SFAS 123(R), we measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize compensation over the service period for
awards expected to vest. The estimation of stock awards that
19
Table of Contents
will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be
recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including types of awards, employee class, and historical experience. Actual results, and future changes in
estimates, may differ substantially from our current estimates. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our financial focus is on long-term, sustainable growth in free cash flow1. Free cash flow was $501 million for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2006, which includes the effect of a $40 million patent litigation
settlement in Q3 2005, compared to $417 million for the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2005, an increase of 20%. Operating cash flows and free cash flow can be volatile and are sensitive to many factors, including changes in working
capital and timing of capital expenditures. Working capital at any specific point in time is subject to many variables, including seasonality, the timing of expense payments, discounts offered by vendors, vendor payment terms, and fluctuations in
foreign exchange rates. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations and our cash, cash equivalents, and
marketable securities balances, which, at fair value, were $1.3 billion and $2.0 billion at March 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005. Amounts held in foreign currencies were $558 million and $905 million at March 31, 2006 and
December 31, 2005, and were primarily Euros, British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R) in Q1 2005, cash
retained as a result of tax deductions relating to stock-based compensation was presented in our consolidated statements of cash flows as operating cash flows, along with other tax cash flows. SFAS 123(R) supersedes prior guidance and requires
tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions to be prospectively presented in our consolidated statements of cash flows as financing cash flows. Tax benefits resulting from stock-based compensation deductions in excess of
amounts reported for financial reporting purposes were $7 million and $1 million for Q1 2006 and Q1 2005, with such amounts treated as financing cash flows instead of operating cash flows. We expect amounts for 2006 to increase
substantially from comparable amounts in 2005. Accordingly, amounts presented for operating cash flows and free cash flow for 2006 will be negatively effected in comparison to prior results; however, the underlying economic substance is not
effected by this change in reporting classification. Cash used in operating activities was $303 million and $294 million for Q1 2006 and
Q1 2005. Our operating cash flows result primarily from cash received from our customers, from third-party sellers, and from non-retail activities such as through our co-branded credit card agreements, Amazon Enterprise Solutions, and miscellaneous
marketing and promotional agreements, offset by cash payments we make for products and services, employee compensation (less amounts capitalized pursuant to SOP 98-1 that are reflected in cash used in investing activities), payment processing and
related transaction costs, operating leases, and interest payments on our long-term debt obligations. Cash received from customers, third-party sellers and non-retail activities generally corresponds to our net sales. Because our customers primarily
use credit cards to buy from us, our receivables from customers settle quickly. Cash paid to inventory and transportation suppliers generally corresponds with cost of sales, adjusted for increases or decreases in inventory and payable levels as well
as increases or decreases in vendor-related receivables for co-operative marketing, volume rebates, and other incentives. During Q1 2006, cash paid to inventory suppliers, totaled $1.8 billion, compared to $1.5 billion in Q1 2005. Cash paid to
inventory suppliers is also affected by our efforts to add product categories, increase selection of products we offer for sale, improve availability in both existing and new product categories, and take advantage of additional discounts offered to
us by suppliers.
20
Table of Contents
Cash provided by (used in) investing activities corresponds with purchases, sales, and maturities of
marketable securities, net cash flows from acquisitions, and purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development costs. Net cash provided by investing activities was $84 million during Q1 2006, and net cash used in
investing activities was $197 million during Q1 2005, with the change primarily driven by net proceeds from marketable security activity during Q1 2006. Capital expenditures were $46 million and $26 million during Q1 2006 and Q1 2005, with the
increases reflecting additional investment in development of new features and product offerings on our websites, as well as investments in fulfillment-related assets and technology infrastructure. Capital expenditures included $25 million and $16
million for internal-use software and website development during Q1 2006 and Q1 2005. Stock-based compensation capitalized for internal-use software and website development costs does not affect cash flows. We purchased certain companies in Q1 2006
and Q1 2005 resulting in cash payments, net of acquired cash, of $28 million and $15 million. We believe our expenditures for repairs and improvements are sufficient to keep our facilities and equipment in suitable operating condition.
Cash used in financing activities was $296 million and $256 million during Q1 2006 and Q1 2005. In Q1 2006, we repaid EUR250 million of our 6.875%
PEACS for $300 million. In Q1 2005, we repaid EUR200 million of our 6.875% PEACS for $265 million. Cash inflows from financing activities primarily result from proceeds from exercises of employee stock options, and tax benefits relating to excess
stock-based compensation deductions, which were $14 million and $9 million for Q1 2006 and Q1 2005. Although quarterly activity is subject to variability, we expect cash proceeds from exercises of stock options will decline over time as we continue
issuing restricted stock units as our primary vehicle for stock-based awards. Since our 6.875% PEACS, which are due in 2010, are
denominated in Euros, our U.S. Dollar equivalent interest payments and principal obligations fluctuate with the Euro to U.S. Dollar exchange rate. As a result, any fluctuations in the exchange rate will have an effect on our interest
expense and, to the extent we make principal payments, the amount of U.S. Dollar equivalents necessary for principal settlement. Additionally, since our interest payable on our 6.875% PEACS is due in Euros, the balance of interest payable is
subject to gains or losses on currency movements until the date of the interest payment. Gains or losses on the remeasurement of our Euro-denominated interest payable are classified as "Other income (expense), net" on our consolidated
statements of operations. The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments as of March 31, 2006:
21
Table of Contents
Pledged Securities We are
required to pledge a portion of our marketable securities as collateral for standby letters of credit that guarantee certain of our contractual obligations, a line of credit, and real estate lease agreements. The amount required to be pledged for
certain real estate lease agreements changes over the life of our leases, and with fluctuations in our market capitalization and our credit rating. Information about collateral required to be pledged under these agreements is as follows:
We believe that
current cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, any projections of future cash needs and cash flows are subject to
substantial uncertainty. See Item 1A of Part II, "Risk Factors". We continually evaluate opportunities to sell additional equity or debt securities, obtain credit facilities from lenders, repurchase common stock, pay dividends, or
repurchase, refinance, or otherwise restructure our long-term debt for strategic reasons or to further strengthen our financial position. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities would likely be dilutive to our shareholders. In
addition, we will, from time to time, consider the acquisition of, or investment in, complementary businesses, products, services, and technologies, which might affect our liquidity requirements or cause us to issue additional equity or debt
securities. There can be no assurance that additional lines-of-credit or financing instruments will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Results of Operations We have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America
and International. We present our segment information along the same lines that our chief executive reviews our operating results in assessing performance and allocating resources.
22
Table of Contents
Net Sales and Gross Profit Net sales information is as follows:
Revenue increased 20% in Q1 2006 compared to Q1 2005. Excluding the effect of currency exchange
rates, revenue growth was 25% in Q1 2006 compared to Q1 2005, with the year over year increase in growth rate driven by an acceleration of revenue growth in our International segment. Changes in currency exchange rates negatively affected Q1 2006
net sales by $94 million, and positively affected Q1 2005 net sales by $30 million. For a discussion of the effect on revenue growth by changes in exchange rates, see "Effect of Exchange Rates" below. North America revenue growth rate for Q1 2006 was 21%. This revenue growth primarily reflects increases in unit sales driven by continued improvements in
customer experience, including reducing prices for our customers, free shipping offers, and increased selection in our product categories. Changes in currency exchange rates positively affected Q1 2006 North America net sales by $2
million. International revenue growth rate for Q1 2006 was 18%. This decrease in revenue growth is due to changes in currency exchange
rates, which negatively affected revenue growth by $96 million for Q1 2006. Excluding the effect of exchange rates, revenue growth was 29%, which is primarily driven by continued improvements in customer experience, including reducing prices for our
customers, free shipping offers, and increased selection in our product categories. We expect that, over time, our International segment
will represent 50% or more of our consolidated total.
23
Table of Contents
Gross profit information is as follows:
The increase in gross profit in absolute terms during Q1 2006 compared to Q1 2005 corresponds with
increases in sales, including increases in sales by third-party sellers as well as increases in amounts earned from Amazon Enterprise Solutions, offset by lower prices for customers and our free shipping offers. Generally, our gross margins
fluctuate based on several factors, including our product, service, and geographic mix of sales; sales volumes by third-party sellers; changes in vendor pricing, including the extent to which we receive discounts and allowances; lowering prices for
customers, including from competitive pricing decisions; improvements in product sourcing and inventory management; and the extent to which our customers accept our free shipping and membership offers. Such free shipping and membership offers reduce
shipping revenue and reduce our gross margins on retail sales. Amazon Prime, introduced in Q1 2005, is a premium membership program in which members receive free two-day shipping and discounted overnight shipping. We have offered free membership
trials for Amazon Prime, and we expect to continue to offer these trials in the future. We view our shipping offers as an effective worldwide marketing tool and intend to continue offering them indefinitely. Sales of products by third-party sellers on our websites continue to increase year over year, representing 29% and 27% of unit sales in Q1 2006 and Q1
2005. Since revenues from these sales are recorded as a net amount, they generally result in lower revenues but higher gross margin per unit. If product sales by third-party sellers continue to increase, the higher gross margin attributes of these
sales will offset decreases in our gross margins due to lowering prices for customers over time by offering price reductions, free shipping offers, and promotions. Since we focus on profit dollars rather than margins, we are largely neutral on
whether an item is sold by us or by a third party. Gross profit growth is also affected by changes in exchange rates -- see
"Effect of Exchange Rates" below. North America segment gross margins in Q1 2006 improved slightly over the comparable period in
2005 resulting from several factors including increases in sales by third-party sellers, offset partially by our efforts to continue reducing prices for customers and changes in the mix of product sales. International segment gross margins in Q1 2006 declined by 53 basis points from the comparable period in 2005 resulting from several factors including
changes in mix of product sales and our efforts to continue reducing prices for customers, including from our year-round free shipping offers, offset partially by increased sales by third-party sellers and increases in amounts earned from other
service agreements.
24
Table of Contents
Supplemental Information Supplemental information about shipping results is as follows:
One way we offer lower prices is through free-shipping offers that result in a net cost to us in delivering products, as well as through membership in Amazon Prime. To the extent our customers accept and use our free shipping offers at an
increasing rate, including memberships in Amazon Prime, our net cost of shipping will increase. We seek to partially mitigate the costs of lowering prices over time through achieving higher sales volumes, negotiating better terms with our suppliers,
and achieving better operating efficiencies. In addition, we anticipate that the costs of lowering prices over time will be partially mitigated to the extent product sales by third-party sellers continue to increase.
25
Table of Contents
Supplemental information about our net sales is as follows:
26
Table of Contents
Operating Expenses Information about operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation was as follows (in millions):
See Item 1 of Part I, "Financial Statements -- Note 1 -- Accounting Policies
-- Stock-Based Compensation" and see "Results of Operations -- Non-GAAP Financial Measures." Fulfillment
The increase in fulfillment costs in absolute dollars during Q1 2006 in comparison with Q1 2005 relates to costs from expanding
fulfillment capacity, and variable costs corresponding with sales volume and inventory levels; our mix of product sales; payment processing and related transaction costs, including mix of payment methods and costs from our guarantee for certain
third-party seller transactions. First quarter 2005 included a charge of $5 million relating to certain North America fulfillment assets removed from service. Fulfillment includes stock-based compensation of $3 million and $4 million for Q1 2006 and
Q1 2005. Fulfillment costs as a percentage of net sales may vary due to several factors, such as payment processing and related
transaction costs, including those from our guarantee for certain third-party seller transactions, our level of productivity and accuracy, changes in volume of units received and fulfilled, the extent we utilize fulfillment services provided by
third parties, and our ability to reduce customer service contacts per unit by implementing improvements in our operations and enhancements to our customer self-service features. The mix of product sales affects fulfillment costs per shipment based
on variations in shape and weight of products we sell. Additionally, because payment processing costs associated with third-party seller transactions are based on the gross purchase price of underlying transactions, and payment processing and
related transaction costs and our A to Z Guarantee costs associated with these transactions are higher as a percentage of revenue versus our retail sales, our increasing third-party sales have higher fulfillment costs as a percent of net sales.
We expanded our fulfillment capacity in Q1 2006 and throughout 2005 through gains in efficiencies as well as increases in leased warehouse
space. We plan to continue expanding our world-wide fulfillment capacity in order to meet anticipated shipment volumes from sales of our own products as well as sales by third parties for which we provide the fulfillment. We expect absolute amounts
spent in fulfillment and fulfillment-related cost of sales to increase over time.
27
Table of Contents
Marketing We direct customers to our websites primarily through a number of targeted online marketing channels, such as our Associates and Syndicated Stores programs, sponsored search, portal advertising, e-mail campaigns, and
other initiatives. Our marketing expenses are largely variable, based on growth in sales and changes in rates. To the extent there is increased or decreased competition for these traffic sources, or to the extent our mix of these channels shifts, we
would expect to see a corresponding change in our marketing expense or its effect. Marketing costs increased in absolute terms in Q1 2006
compared to Q1 2005, primarily corresponding with revenue growth as we utilized variable online marketing channels, such as our Associates program, sponsored search, and other variable marketing initiatives. Marketing includes stock-based
compensation of $1 million for Q1 2005. Stock-based compensation included in marketing was insignificant for Q1 2006. While costs
associated with free shipping are not included in marketing expense, we view free shipping offers as an effective worldwide marketing tool, and intend to continue offering them indefinitely. We expect absolute amounts spent in marketing to increase
over time. Technology and Content We significantly increased our spending in technology and content in Q1 2006 compared to Q1 2005, which corresponds with our focus on several technology initiatives. In 2005, we added a significant number of computer
scientists and software engineers to our staff so that we can continue to enhance the customer experience on our websites and those websites powered by us, improve our process efficiency, and invest in several areas of technology including seller
platforms, search, web services, and digital initiatives. We expect the year-over-year percentage growth in technology and content, excluding stock-based compensation, to decrease substantially in the back half of 2006. Technology and content
includes stock-based compensation of $8 million and $10 million for Q1 2006 and Q1 2005. For Q1 2006 and Q1 2005, we capitalized $26
million (including $1 million of stock-based compensation) and $18 million (including $2 million of stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and website development, which are partially offset by amortization of
previously capitalized amounts of $18 million and $10 million. A significant majority of our technology costs are incurred in the U.S. and
most of them are allocated to our North America segment. General and Administrative The decrease in general and administrative costs in Q1 2006 compared to Q1 2005 is primarily due to the effect of an $8 million charge related to
litigation matters in Q1 2005, offset partially by increases in payroll and related expenses. General and administrative includes stock-based compensation of $4 million for Q1 2005. Stock-based compensation included in general and administrative was
insignificant for Q1 2006. We expect absolute amounts spent in general and administrative to increase over time. Stock-Based
Compensation Stock-based compensation was $11 million and $19 million during Q1 2006 and Q1 2005. The decrease in stock-based
compensation is primarily attributable to a cumulative forfeiture adjustment benefit in Q1 2006, partially offset by general growth in restricted stock unit grants corresponding with an increase in employees. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current
estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in
28
Table of Contents
the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including types of awards, employee class, and historical
experience. Actual results, and future changes in estimates, may differ substantially from our current estimates. In Q1 2006 we recorded a $13 million benefit, $8 million net of tax, or $0.02 per diluted share, representing the cumulative effect of
increasing our estimated rate of stock award forfeitures. As a result, the net amount of stock-based compensation classified as "General and administrative" and "Marketing" on our consolidated statements of operations
was insignificant for Q1 2006. In addition, the adoption of SFAS 123(R) in Q1 2005 resulted in a cumulative benefit from accounting change
of $26 million, which reflects the net cumulative impact of estimating future forfeitures in the determination of period expense, rather than recording forfeitures when they occur as previously permitted. Net Interest Expense The
primary component of our net interest expense is the interest we incur on our long-term debt instruments, including $900 million principal balance of our 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes and EUR240 million ($291 million based on the exchange
rate at March 31, 2006) of our 6.875% PEACS at March 31, 2006. Interest expense was $21 million and $26 million in Q1 2006 and Q1 2005, with declines primarily relating to principal repayments of our long-term debt. At March 31, 2006, our total long-term debt was $1.3 billion compared to $1.5 billion at December 31, 2005. See Item 1 of Part I,
"Financial Statements -- Note 3 -- Long-Term Debt and Other." We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade
short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market mutual funds. Our interest income corresponds with the average balance of invested funds and the prevailing rates we are earning on them, which vary depending on the
geographies in which they are invested. Remeasurements and Other Remeasurements and other consisted of the following:
Income Taxes Our tax provision for interim periods is determined using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate. The effective tax rates in Q1 2006 and Q1 2005
were higher than the 35% statutory rate, resulting from steps we initiated to establish our European headquarters in Luxembourg, which we expect will benefit our effective tax rate over time. Associated with the establishment of our European
headquarters, we transferred certain of our operating assets in 2005 and 2006, from the U.S. to international locations. These transfers resulted in taxable income and an increase in our effective tax rate. We expect the transfers will result in an
effective tax rate for financial reporting purposes higher than the statutory rate throughout 2006. There is a potential for significant volatility of our 2006 effective tax rate due to several factors, including from variability in accurately
predicting our taxable income and the taxable jurisdictions to which is relates. Since we have deferred tax assets related to our NOLs, these asset transfers are not expected to have a significant impact on our cash taxes paid in 2006, which we
expect to be approximately $25 million. We endeavor to optimize our global taxes on a cash basis, rather than on a financial reporting basis. Cash paid for income taxes was $5 million and $3 million in Q1 2006 and Q1 2005.
29
Table of Contents
Net Income Net income was $51 million and $78 million for Q1 2006 and Q1 2005. Included in net income for Q1 2005 is a benefit of $26 million representing the cumulative effect of adopting SFAS 123(R). We believe that year-over-year changes in net income are not necessarily predictive of our future net income results for a variety of reasons. For
example, the net effect of remeasurement of our 6.875% PEACS and intercompany balances can result in significant gains or losses associated with the effect of movements in currency exchange rates. Accordingly, we encourage readers of our financial
statements to evaluate the effect on our operating trends of these items since changes in currency exchange rates may create significant variability in our future operating results. Effect of Exchange Rates The
effect on our consolidated statements of operations from changes in exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar is as follows:
Non-GAAP Financial Measures Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial
Measures, and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. Our measure of "Free cash flow" meets the definition of a non-GAAP financial measure. Free cash flow is used in
addition to and in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP and free cash flow should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. Free cash flow reflects an additional way of viewing our liquidity that, when
viewed with our GAAP results, provides a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our cash flows. Management strongly encourages shareholders to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not
to rely on any single financial measure. Free cash flow, which we reconcile to "Net cash provided by operating activities," is
cash flow from operations reduced by "Purchases of fixed assets, including internal-use software and website development." We
30
Table of Contents
use free cash flow, and ratios based on it, to conduct and evaluate our business because, although it is similar to cash flow from operations, we believe it
is a more conservative measure of cash flows since purchases of fixed assets are a necessary component of ongoing operations. In limited circumstances in which proceeds from sales of fixed assets exceed purchases, free cash flow would exceed cash
flow from operations. However, since we do not anticipate being a net seller of fixed assets, we expect free cash flow to be less than operating cash flows. Free cash flow has limitations due to the fact that it does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. For example, free cash flow does not incorporate payments made on capital
lease obligations or cash payments for business acquisitions. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a complement to our entire consolidated statements of cash flows. The following is a reconciliation of free cash flow to the most comparable GAAP measure, "Net cash provided by operating activities" for the
trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005 (in millions):
In addition, we provide operating expenses with and without stock-based compensation. We provide
this information to show the impact of stock-based compensation, which is non-cash and excluded from our internal operating plans and measurement of financial performance (although we consider the dilutive impact to our shareholders when awarding
stock-based compensation and value such awards accordingly). In addition, unlike other centrally-incurred operating costs, stock-based compensation is not allocated to segment results and therefore excluding it from operating expense is consistent
with our segment presentation in our footnotes to the consolidated financial statements. Stock-based compensation programs are an important element of the company's compensation structure and all forms of stock-based awards are valued and
included as appropriate in results of operations. The employer portion of payroll tax expense is included in both presentations. Guidance
The Company provided guidance on April 25, 2006 in its earnings release furnished on Form 8-K as follows: Second Quarter 2006 Guidance
31
Table of Contents
Full Year 2006 Expectations
We are appealing a recent court decision that terminates our Toysrus.com contract and are seeking a stay of the termination pending a decision on our
appeal. While we believe we will prevail and that Toysrus.com's claims lack merit, the timing and possible outcomes of this litigation are uncertain and possible effects of termination are not reflected in the guidance above. If we do not
prevail, operating profit could be negatively impacted by as much as $50 million for the year, including by as much as $25 million for the second quarter. These projections are subject to substantial uncertainty. See Item 1A of Part II, "Risk Factors".
Item 3. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We are exposed to market
risk for the effect of interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations, and changes in the market values of our investments. Information relating to quantitative and qualitative market risks is set forth below and in Item 2 of Part I, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Liquidity and Capital
Resources." Interest Rate Risk Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and our long-term debt. All of our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities are designated as
available-for-sale and, accordingly, are presented at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market mutual funds.
Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates, and we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates.
At March 31, 2006, we had long-term debt of $1.3 billion primarily associated with our 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes and
6.875% PEACS, which are due in 2009 and 2010. The market value of our long-term debt will fluctuate with movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates of interest.
Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value of the 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes (outstanding principal of $900 million) was $861 million and $868 million at March 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005. The fair value of the 6.875%
PEACS (outstanding principal of EUR240 million and EUR490 million) was $295 million and $586 million at March 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005. Foreign Exchange Risk During Q1 2006, net sales from our International segment (consisting of
, , , , and ) accounted for 45% of our consolidated revenues. Net sales and related expenses generated from these websites, as well as those
relating to (which is included in our North America segment), are denominated in the functional currencies
32
Table of Contents
of the corresponding websites and include British Pounds, Euros, and Japanese Yen. The functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support
these websites is the same as the corresponding local currency. The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances associated with, our internationally-focused websites are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon
consolidation, as exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. For example, as a result of
fluctuations in foreign exchange rates throughout the period compared to rates in effect the prior year, International segment revenues in Q1 2006 was reduced by $96 million and our consolidated operating income was reduced by $8 million.
We have foreign exchange risk related to foreign-denominated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities ("foreign
funds"). Based on the balance of foreign funds at March 31, 2006 of $558 million, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% negative currency movement would result in fair value declines of $28 million, $56 million, or $112 million. All investments are
classified as "available for sale," as defined by SFAS 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities. We have foreign exchange risk related to our 6.875% PEACS, which have an outstanding principal balance at March 31, 2006 of EUR240 million ($291 million, based on the exchange rate as of March 31, 2006). Due to fluctuations in
the Euro/U.S. Dollar exchange ratio, which we cannot predict, our remaining principal debt obligation under the 6.875% PEACS since issuance in February 2000 has increased by $54 million as of March 31, 2006. Based on the outstanding 6.875%
PEACS' principal balance, an assumed 5%, 10%, and 20% weakening of the U.S. Dollar in relation to the Euro would result in additional losses of approximately $15 million, $29 million, or $58 million, recorded to "Remeasurements and
other." Additionally, we have not hedged our interest payments under our 6.875% PEACS to protect against exchange rate fluctuations. Assuming the U.S. Dollar weakens against the Euro by 5%, 10%, and 20%, we would incur $1 million, $2
million, or $4 million additional annual interest expense due solely to fluctuations in foreign exchange. See Item 2 of Part I,
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Results of Operations -- Effect of Exchange Rates" for additional information on the effect on reported results of changes in exchange
rates. Investment Risk As of March 31, 2006, our recorded basis in equity securities (including both publicly-traded and private companies) was $13 million, including $6 million classified as "Marketable securities," and $7 million classified as
"Other assets." We regularly review the carrying value of our investments and identify and record losses when events and circumstances indicate that declines in the fair value of such assets below our accounting basis are
other-than-temporary. The fair values of our investments are subject to significant fluctuations due to volatility of the stock market in general, company-specific circumstances, and changes in general economic conditions. Based on the fair value of
the publicly-traded equity securities we held at March 31, 2006 of $47 million (recorded basis of $7 million), an assumed 15%, 30%, and 50% adverse change to market prices of these securities would result in a corresponding decline in
total fair value of approximately $7 million, $14 million, or $23 million.
Item 4. Controls and Procedures We carried out an evaluation required by the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934 (the "1934 Act"), under the supervision and with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and
procedures, as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the 1934 Act, as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and
procedures were effective in providing reasonable assurance that material information required to be included in our periodic SEC reports is made known to them in a timely manner. Management does not expect that our disclosure controls and
procedures will prevent or detect all error and fraud. Any control system, no matter how well designed and
33
Table of Contents
operated, is based upon certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. Further, no evaluation
of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. During the most recent fiscal quarter, there has not occurred any change in our internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected,
or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
34
Table of Contents
PART II. OTHER INFORMATION
Item 1. Legal Proceedings See Item 1 of Part I, "Financial Statements -- Note
4 -- Commitments and Contingencies."
Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this
Quarterly Report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our
business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We Face Intense Competition The market segments in which we compete are rapidly evolving and
intensely competitive, and we have many competitors in different industries, including both the retail and e-commerce services industries. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition, and significantly greater financial, marketing, and other resources than we have. They may be able to secure
merchandise from vendors on more favorable terms and may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Competitors in both the retail and e-commerce services industries also may be able to devote more resources to technology development,
fulfillment, and marketing than we do. Competition in the e-commerce channel may intensify. Other companies in the retail and e-commerce
service industries may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. As various Internet market segments obtain large, loyal customer bases, participants in those segments may expand into the market
segments in which we operate. In addition, new and expanded Web technologies, including search, web services, and digital, may further intensify the competitive nature of online retail and e-commerce services. The nature of the Internet as an
electronic marketplace facilitates competitive entry and comparison shopping and renders it inherently more competitive than conventional retailing formats. This increased competition may reduce our sales, operating profits, or both. Our Expansion Places a Significant Strain on our Management, Operational, Financial and Other Resources We are rapidly and significantly expanding our operations both domestically and internationally and will continue to expand further to pursue growth of
our product and service offerings and customer base. Such expansion increases the complexity of our business and places a significant strain on our management, operations, technical performance, financial resources, and internal financial control
and reporting functions, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage it effectively. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures, and controls may not be adequate to support and effectively manage our future operations,
especially as we employ personnel in multiple geographic locations. We may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate, and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth. If any of this were to occur, it could damage our reputation, limit
our growth, negatively affect our operating results and harm our business. Our Expansion into New Product Areas and Geographic
Regions Subjects Us to Business and Competitive Risks We do not expect to benefit in our newer market segments, whether products,
services or new geographic areas, from the first-to-market advantage that we experienced in the U.S. online book channel. Our gross profits
35
Table of Contents
in our newer business activities may be lower than in our older business activities. In addition, we may have limited or no experience in new product and
service activities and new geographic areas, and our customers may not favorably receive our new businesses. Our newer market segments may present special technology challenges that we have not faced before. To the extent we pursue commercial
agreements, acquisitions and/or strategic alliances to facilitate new product or service activities or geographic expansion, the agreements, acquisitions and/or alliances may not be successful. If any of this were to occur, it could damage our
reputation, limit our growth, negatively affect our operating results and harm our business. We May Experience Significant
Fluctuations in Our Operating Results and Rate of Growth Due to our limited operating history, our evolving business model, and the
unpredictability of our industry, we may not be able to accurately forecast our rate of growth. We base our current and future expense levels and our investment plans on estimates of future net sales and rate of growth. A significant portion of our
expenses and investments is fixed, and we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough if our net sales fall short of our expectations. Our revenue and operating profit growth depends on the continued growth of demand for the products and services offered by us or our sellers, and our business is affected by general economic and business conditions throughout the world. A
softening of demand, whether caused by changes in consumer preferences or a weakening of the U.S. or global economies, may result in decreased revenue or growth. Terrorist attacks and armed hostilities create economic and consumer uncertainty that
could adversely affect our revenue or growth. Such events could create delays in, and increase the cost of, product shipments, which may decrease demand. Revenue growth may not be sustainable and our company-wide percentage growth rate may decrease
in the future. Our net sales and operating results will also fluctuate for many other reasons, including:
36
Table of Contents
Finally, both
seasonal fluctuations in Internet usage and traditional retail seasonality are likely to affect our business. Internet usage generally slows during the summer months, and sales in almost all of our product groups, particularly toys and electronics,
usually increase significantly in the fourth calendar quarter of each year. We May Not Be Successful in Our Efforts to Expand into
International Market Segments Our international activities are significant to our revenues and profits and we plan, over time, to
continue to expand our reach in international market segments. We have relatively little experience in purchasing, marketing, and distributing products or services for these or future market segments and may not benefit from any first-to-market
advantages. It is costly to establish international facilities and operations, promote our brand internationally and develop localized websites, stores, and other systems. We may not succeed in these efforts. Our net sales from international market
segments may not offset the expense of establishing and maintaining the related operations and, therefore, these operations may not be profitable on a sustained basis. Our international sales and related operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in selling abroad, including, but not limited to, risks with respect to:
37
Table of Contents
As the
international e-commerce channel continues to grow, competition will likely intensify. Local companies may have a substantial competitive advantage because of their greater understanding of, and focus on, the local customer, as well as their more
established local brand name recognition. In addition, governments in foreign jurisdictions may regulate e-commerce or other online services in such areas as licenses, content, privacy, network security, copyright, encryption, taxation, or
distribution. We may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate, and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth in international market segments. In 2004, we acquired Joyo.com, which is organized under the laws of the British Virgin Islands and operates and in the People's Republic of China ("PRC") in
cooperation with a PRC subsidiary and PRC affiliates. The PRC regulates Joyo.com's business through regulations and license requirements restricting (i) the scope of foreign investment in the Internet, retail and delivery sectors,
(ii) Internet content and (iii) the sale of certain media products. In order to meet the PRC local ownership and regulatory licensing requirements, Joyo.com's business is operated through a PRC subsidiary which acts in cooperation
with PRC companies owned by nominee shareholders who are PRC nationals. Although we believe Joyo.com's structure complies with existing PRC laws, it involves unique risks. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation of PRC
laws and regulations, and it is possible that the PRC government will ultimately take a view contrary to ours. If Joyo.com or its subsidiary or affiliates were found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations or if
interpretations of those laws and regulations were to change, the business could be subject to fines and other financial penalties, have its licenses revoked or be forced to shut down entirely. In addition, if Joyo.com were unable to enforce its
contractual relationships with respect to management and control of its business, it might be unable to continue to operate the business. In addition, Joyo.com is subject to many of the risks described in "Our Business Could Suffer if We are
Unsuccessful in Making, Integrating, and Maintaining Acquisitions and Investments." If We Do Not Successfully Optimize and
Operate Our Fulfillment Centers, Our Business Could Be Harmed If we do not successfully operate our fulfillment centers, it could
significantly limit our ability to meet customer demand. Because it is difficult to predict demand, we may not manage our facilities in an optimal way, which may result in excess or insufficient inventory or warehousing, fulfillment, and
distribution capacity. A failure to optimize inventory in our fulfillment network will increase our net shipping cost by requiring us to make long-zone shipments or partial shipments from one or more locations. Orders from several of our
internationally-focused websites are fulfilled primarily from a single fulfillment center, and we have only a
38
Table of Contents
limited ability to reroute orders to third parties for drop-shipping. We and our co-sourcers may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment and customer
service centers. As we continue to add fulfillment and warehouse capability or add new businesses with different fulfillment requirements, our fulfillment network becomes increasingly complex and operating it becomes more challenging. There can be
no assurance that we will be able to operate our network effectively. We rely on a limited number of shipping companies to deliver
inventory to our fulfillment centers and completed orders to our customers. If we are not able to negotiate acceptable terms with these companies or they experience performance problems or other difficulties, it could negatively impact our operating
results and customer experience. In addition, our ability to receive inbound inventory efficiently and ship completed orders to customers also may be negatively affected by inclement weather, fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, labor disputes,
acts of war or terrorism, acts of God and similar factors. Third parties either drop-ship or otherwise fulfill an increasing portion of
our customers' orders, and we are increasingly reliant on the reliability, quality, and future procurement of their services. Under some of our commercial agreements, we maintain the inventory of other companies in our fulfillment centers,
thereby increasing the complexity of tracking inventory in and operating our fulfillment centers. Our failure to properly handle such inventory or the inability or failure of these other companies to accurately forecast product demand would result
in unexpected costs and other harm to our business and reputation. The Seasonality of Our Business Places Increased Strain on Our
Operations We expect a disproportionate amount of our net sales to be realized during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. If we
do not stock popular products in sufficient amounts or fail to have sources to timely restock popular products, such that we fail to meet customer demand, it could significantly affect our revenue and our future growth. If we overstock products, we
may be required to take significant inventory markdowns or write-offs, which could reduce gross profits. A failure to optimize inventory in our fulfillment network will harm our shipping margins by requiring us to make long-zone shipments or partial
shipments from one or more locations. Orders from several of our internationally-focused websites are fulfilled primarily from a single fulfillment center, and we have only a limited ability to reroute orders to third parties for drop-shipping. We
may experience an increase in our net shipping cost due to complimentary upgrades, split-shipments, and additional long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely delivery, especially for the holiday season. If the other businesses on whose behalf we
perform inventory fulfillment services deliver product to our fulfillment centers in excess of forecasts, we may be unable to secure sufficient storage space and may be unable to optimize our fulfillment centers. If too many customers access our
websites within a short period of time due to increased holiday or other demand, we may experience system interruptions that make our websites unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume of goods we sell
and the attractiveness of our products and services. In addition, we may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment centers during these peak periods and third parties that provide fulfillment services to our customers may be unable to meet the
seasonal demand. Finally, we, along with our customer service co-sourcers, may be unable to adequately staff customer service centers. We
generally have payment terms with our vendors that extend beyond the amount of time necessary to collect proceeds from our customers. As a result of holiday sales, at December 31 of each year, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable
securities balances typically reach their highest level (other than as a result of cash flows provided by or used in investing and financing activities). This operating cycle results in a corresponding increase in accounts payable. Our accounts
payable balance should decline during the first three months following year-end, which will result in a decline in our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances. Our Business Could Suffer if We Are Unsuccessful in Making, Integrating, and Maintaining Commercial Agreements, Strategic Alliances, and Other
Business Relationships We may enter into commercial agreements, strategic alliances, and other business relationships with other
companies. We have entered into agreements to provide e-commerce services to other businesses and we plan to
39
Table of Contents
enter into similar agreements in the future, including as part of our Merchants@, Syndicated Stores, and Amazon Enterprise Solutions program initiatives.
Under such agreements, we may perform services such as: providing our technology services such as search, browse, and personalization; permitting other businesses and individuals to offer products or services through our websites; and powering
third-party websites, either with or without providing accompanying fulfillment services. These arrangements are complex and require substantial personnel and resource commitments by us, which may constrain the number of such agreements we are able
to enter into and may affect our ability to integrate and deliver services under the relevant agreements. If we fail to implement, maintain, and develop successfully the various components of such commercial relationships, which may include
fulfillment, customer service, inventory management, tax collection, payment processing, licensing of third-party software, hardware, and content, and engaging third parties to perform hosting and other services, these initiatives may not be viable.
The amount of compensation we receive under certain of these agreements is partially dependent on the volume of sales that the other company makes. Therefore, if the other business's website or product or services offering is not successful, we
may not receive all of the compensation we are otherwise due under the agreement or may not be able to maintain the agreement. Moreover, we may not be able to succeed in our plans to enter into additional commercial relationships and strategic
alliances on favorable terms. As our commercial agreements expire or otherwise terminate, we may be unable to renew or replace these
agreements on comparable terms, or at all. In the past, we amended several of our commercial agreements to reduce future cash proceeds to be received by us, shorten the term of the agreements, or both. Some of our agreements involve high margin
services, such as marketing and promotional agreements, and as such agreements expire they may be replaced, if at all, by agreements involving lower margin services. In addition, several past commercial agreements were with companies that
experienced business failures and were unable to meet their obligations to us. We may in the future enter into further amendments of our commercial agreements or encounter other parties that have difficulty meeting their contractual obligations to
us, which could adversely affect our operating results. As an example, we are currently in litigation with Toysrus.com over our commercial agreement. The trial court judge has ordered the early termination of the commercial agreement, and we
are appealing the decision. In the event the judge's order stands and we are unable to stay and/or reverse the judge's decision, we would attempt to replace the product selection currently provided by Toysrus.com with owned inventory and
offerings from other parties, but our operating results could be negatively impacted. Our present and future third-party services
agreements, other commercial agreements, and strategic alliances create additional risks such as:
Our Business Could Suffer if We Are Unsuccessful in Making, Integrating, and Maintaining Acquisitions and Investments We have acquired and invested in a number of companies, and we may acquire or invest in (such as through joint ventures or other business combinations) additional companies. Acquisitions and investments create risks such as:
40
Table of Contents
Finally, as a result of future acquisitions or
mergers, we might need to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could reduce our profitability and harm our business.
We Have Foreign Exchange Risk The results of operations of, and certain of our intercompany balances associated with, our internationally-focused websites are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon translation, net sales and other
operating results may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses on the remeasurement of intercompany balances. As we have expanded our international operations, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations has
become more pronounced. See Item 2 of Part I, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Results of Operations -- Effect of Exchange Rates" for a table demonstrating the
effect on our consolidated statements of operations from changes in exchange rates versus the U.S. Dollar. In addition, our 6.875% PEACS
are denominated in Euros, not U.S. Dollars. We remeasure the principal of the 6.875% PEACS quarterly based on fluctuations in the Euro/U.S. Dollar exchange ratio and record gains or losses in "Remeasurements and other" on our consolidated
statements of operations. As a result, increases in the Euro relative to the U.S. Dollar increase the U.S. dollar amount we owe as interest and principal. Furthermore, we hold cash equivalents and/or marketable securities primarily in Euros,
British Pounds, and Japanese Yen. Accordingly, if the U.S. Dollar strengthens compared to these currencies, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances, when translated, may be materially less than expected and vice versa.
Our Investments and the Consideration We Receive under Certain Commercial Agreements May Subject Us to a Number of Risks In the past, we have entered into commercial agreements with other companies, including strategic alliances whereby we perform certain e-commerce
services, and in exchange for our services we received cash, equity securities of these companies, and/or additional benefits, such as website traffic. The amount of compensation we receive under certain of these agreements is dependent on the
volume of sales made by the other company. In some cases, we have also made separate investments in the other company by making a cash payment in exchange for equity securities of that company. We may make similar investments in the future. To the
extent we have received equity securities as compensation, fluctuations in the value of such securities will affect our ultimate realization of amounts we have received as compensation for services.
41
Table of Contents
In the past, we amended several of our commercial agreements to reduce future cash proceeds to be
received by us, shorten the term of our commercial agreements, or both. We may in the future enter into further amendments of our commercial agreements. Although these amendments did not affect the amount of unearned revenue previously recorded by
us (if any), the timing of revenue recognition of these recorded unearned amounts was changed to correspond with the terms of the amended agreements. To the extent we believe any such amendments cause or may cause the compensation to be received
under an agreement to no longer be fixed or determinable, we limit our revenue recognition to amounts received, excluding any future amounts not deemed fixed or determinable. As future amounts are subsequently received, such amounts are incorporated
into our revenue recognition over the remaining term of the agreement. Our investments in equity securities are included in
"Marketable securities" and "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets. We regularly review all of our investments in public and private companies for other-than-temporary declines in fair value. When we determine that the
decline in fair value of an investment below our accounting basis is other-than-temporary, we reduce the carrying value of the securities we hold and record a loss in the amount of any such decline. In recent years, securities of companies in the
Internet and e-commerce industries have experienced significant difficulties. We may conclude in future quarters that the fair values of our investments have experienced additional other-than-temporary declines. As of March 31, 2006, our
recorded basis in equity securities was $13 million, including $6 million classified as "Marketable securities" and $7 million classified as "Other assets." The Loss of Key Senior Management Personnel Could Negatively Affect Our Business We depend on the continued services and performance of our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Jeffrey P. Bezos, our President, Chief
Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board. We do not have "key person" life insurance policies. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. System Interruption and the Lack of Integration and Redundancy in Our Systems May Affect Our Sales Customer access to our websites and the speed with which a customer is able to navigate and make purchases on our websites directly affects the volume of
goods we sell and the services we offer and thus affects our net sales. We experience occasional system interruptions and delays that make our websites unavailable or slow to respond and prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders or providing
services to third parties, which may reduce our net sales and the attractiveness of our products and services. If we are unable to continually add software and hardware, effectively upgrade our systems and network infrastructure and take other steps
to improve the efficiency of our systems, it could cause system interruptions or delays and adversely affect our operating results. Our
computer and communications systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and
similar events or disruptions. Any of these events could cause system interruption, delays, and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from accepting and fulfilling customer orders. Should this occur, it would make our product offerings less
attractive to our customers and our service offerings less attractive to third parties. While we do have backup systems for certain aspects of our operations, our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning may not be
sufficient for all eventualities. In addition, we may have inadequate insurance coverage or insurance limits to compensate us for losses from a major interruption. If any of this were to occur, it could damage our reputation and be expensive to
remedy. We Have Significant Indebtedness As of March 31, 2006, we had long-term indebtedness of $1.3 billion. We make annual or semi-annual interest payments on the indebtedness under our two convertible notes, which are due in 2009 and 2010.
42
Table of Contents
Although we made debt principal reduction payments, we may incur substantial additional debt in the future, and in any event a significant portion of our
future cash flow from operating activities is likely to remain dedicated to the payment of interest and the repayment of principal on our indebtedness. Our indebtedness could limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital,
capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions or other purposes in the future, as needed; to plan for, or react to, changes in technology and in our business and competition; and to react in the event of an economic downturn.
There is no guarantee that we will be able to meet our debt service obligations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or
obtain funds for required payments, or if we fail to comply with covenants in our indebtedness, we will be in default. In addition, we may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all. See Item 1 of Part I, "Financial Statements -- Note 3 -- Long-Term Debt and Other." We Face Significant Inventory Risk We are exposed to significant inventory risks as a result of seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes in product cycles and changes in consumer tastes with respect to our products. In order to be successful, we must accurately
predict these trends and avoid overstocking or under-stocking products. Demand for products, however, can change significantly between the time inventory is ordered and the date of sale. In addition, when we begin selling a new product, it may be
difficult to establish vendor relationships, determine appropriate product selection, and accurately forecast product demand. A failure to optimize inventory within our fulfillment network will increase our net shipping cost by requiring us to make
split shipments from one or more locations, complimentary upgrades, and additional long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely delivery. As a result of our third-party services relationships with Toysrus.com, Babiesrus.com, Target, and other companies, these parties identify, buy, and bear the financial risk of inventory obsolescence for their corresponding stores and
merchandise. As a result, if any of these parties fail to forecast product demand or optimize or maintain access to inventory, we would receive reduced service fees under the agreements and our business and reputation could be harmed. The acquisition of certain types of inventory, or inventory from certain sources, may require significant lead-time and prepayment, and such inventory
may not be returnable. We carry a broad selection and significant inventory levels of certain products, such as consumer electronics, and we may be unable to sell products in sufficient quantities or during the relevant selling seasons.
Any one of the inventory risk factors set forth above may adversely affect our operating results. We May Not Be Able to Adequately Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights or May Be Accused of Infringing Intellectual Property Rights of Third
Parties We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technology, and
similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners, and others to protect our
proprietary rights. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright, patent, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are made available online. We also may not be able to acquire or maintain appropriate domain names in all countries in which we do business. Furthermore, regulations governing
domain names may not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. We may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon, or diminish the value of our trademarks and other proprietary
rights.
43
Table of Contents
Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is inherently difficult, and we may not be able to
determine the existence or extent of any such unauthorized use. In addition, third parties that license our proprietary rights may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or reputation. The protection of our intellectual
property may require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. Moreover, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may not adequately protect our rights or prevent third parties from infringing or
misappropriating our patents, trademarks, domain names, copyrights, trade secrets, and similar proprietary rights. We also cannot be certain that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire equivalent or superior technology or other
intellectual property rights. Other parties also may claim that we infringe their proprietary rights. We have been subject to, and expect
to continue to be subject to, claims and legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement by us of the patents, trademarks, and other intellectual property rights of third parties. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, may result in the
expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, injunctions against us or the imposition of damages that we must pay. We may need to obtain licenses from third parties who allege that we have infringed their rights, but such licenses
may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, we may not be able to obtain or utilize on terms that are favorable to us, or at all, licenses or other rights with respect to intellectual property we do not own in providing
e-commerce services to other businesses and individuals under commercial agreements. We Have a Limited Operating History and Our
Stock Price Is Highly Volatile We have a relatively short operating history and a rapidly evolving and unpredictable business
model. The trading price of our common stock fluctuates significantly. Trading prices of our common stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as:
Any of these events may cause our stock price to rise or fall and may adversely affect our business and financing opportunities. Future volatility in our stock price could force us to increase our cash compensation to employees or grant larger stock awards than we have
historically, which could hurt our operating results or reduce the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders, or both.
44
Table of Contents
Government Regulation of the Internet and E-commerce Is Evolving and Unfavorable Changes Could Harm
Our Business We are subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the
Internet and e-commerce. Such existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights,
distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, unencumbered Internet access to our services, and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not clear
how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel, and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce. Unfavorable resolution of these issues may harm our business. In addition, many jurisdictions
currently regulate "auctions" and "auctioneers" and may regulate online auction services. Jurisdictions may also regulate other consumer-to-consumer online markets, including certain aspects of Amazon Marketplace. This could, in
turn, diminish the demand for our products and services and increase our cost of doing business. Taxation Risks Could Subject Us to
Liability for Past Sales and Cause Our Future Sales to Decrease We do not collect sales taxes or other taxes with respect to
shipments of most of our goods into most states in the U.S. Under some of our commercial agreements, the other company is the seller of record of the applicable merchandise and we are obligated to collect sales tax in most states in accordance with
that company's instructions. We may enter into additional strategic alliances requiring similar tax collection obligations. Our fulfillment center and customer service center networks, and any future expansion of those networks, along with
other aspects of our evolving business, may result in additional sales and other tax obligations. We collect consumption tax (including value added tax, goods and services tax, and provincial sales tax) as applicable on goods and services sold by us
that are ordered on our international sites. One or more states or foreign countries may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on out-of-jurisdiction companies that engage in e-commerce. A successful assertion by one or more
states or foreign countries that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of merchandise or services could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability to compete with traditional retailers, and otherwise harm
our business. Currently, decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and local sales and
use taxes with respect to sales made over the Internet. However, a number of states, as well as the U.S. Congress, have been considering various initiatives that could limit or supersede the Supreme Court's position regarding sales and use
taxes on Internet sales. If any of these initiatives addressed the Supreme Court's constitutional concerns and resulted in a reversal of its current position, we could be required to collect sales and use taxes in additional states. The
imposition by state and local governments of various taxes upon Internet commerce could create administrative burdens for us, put us at a competitive disadvantage if they do not impose similar obligations on all of our online competitors and
decrease our future sales. Our Vendor Relationships Subject Us to a Number of Risks Although we continue to increase the number of vendors that supply products to us and no vendor accounts for 10% or more of our inventory purchases, we
have significant vendors that are important to our sourcing. We do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with most of our vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits. If
our current vendors were to stop selling merchandise to us on acceptable terms, we may not be able to acquire merchandise from other suppliers in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms. We May Be Subject to Product Liability Claims if People or Property Are Harmed by the Products We Sell Some of the products we sell may expose us to product liability claims relating to personal injury, death, or property damage caused by such products, and
may require us to take actions such as product recalls. Certain
45
Table of Contents
businesses and individuals also sell products using our e-commerce platform that may increase our exposure to product liability claims, such as if these
sellers do not have sufficient resources to protect themselves from such claims. Although we maintain liability insurance, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to
be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, some of our vendor agreements with our distributors, manufacturers, and third-party sellers do not indemnify us from product liability. We Are Subject to a Number of Risks Related to Payments We Accept We accept payments by a variety of methods, including credit card, debit card, gift certificates, direct debit from a customer's bank account,
physical bank check and payment upon delivery. As we offer new payment options to our customers, like direct debit in the U.S., we may be subject to additional regulations, compliance requirements, and fraud. For certain payment transactions,
including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower our profit margins. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements
and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees
and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers, process electronic funds transfers, or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Finally, we offer
co-branded credit card programs that represent a significant component of our services revenue and generate high margins. If one or more of these agreements are terminated and we are unable to replace them on similar terms, or at all, it could
adversely affect our operating results. We Could Be Liable for Breaches of Security on Our Website A fundamental requirement for e-commerce is the secure storage and transmission of confidential information. Although we have developed systems and
processes that are designed to protect consumer information and prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches, failure to mitigate such fraud or breaches may adversely affect our operating results. We Could Be Liable for Fraudulent or Unlawful Activities of Sellers The law relating to the liability of providers of online payment services is currently unsettled. In addition, we are aware that governmental agencies
have investigated the provision of online payment services and could require changes in the way this business is conducted. Under Merchants@, Marketplace and certain other of our programs, we may be unable to prevent sellers from collecting
payments, fraudulently or otherwise, when buyers never receive the products they ordered or when the products received are materially different from the sellers' descriptions. Under our A2Z Guarantee, we reimburse buyers for payments up to
certain limits in these situations and as our third party sales grow, the cost of this program will increase and could negatively affect our operating results. Any costs we incur as a result of liability because of our A2Z Guarantee or otherwise
could harm our business. In addition, the functionality of our payments program depends on certain third-party vendors delivering services. If these vendors are unable or unwilling to provide services, our payments program and our businesses that
use it may not be viable. Finally, we may be unable to prevent sellers in our Merchants@, Marketplace, Amazon Enterprise Solutions, and certain other programs from selling unlawful goods, from selling goods in an unlawful manner, or violating the
proprietary rights of others, and could face civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities by our sellers. We May Not Be Able
to Adapt Quickly Enough to Changing Customer Requirements and Industry Standards Technology in the e-commerce industry changes
rapidly. We may not be able to adapt quickly enough to changing customer requirements and preferences and industry standards. Competitors often introduce new products and services with new technologies. These changes and the emergence of new
industry standards and practices could render our existing websites and proprietary technology obsolete.
46
Table of Contents
Item 2. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds None.
Item 3. Defaults Upon Senior Securities None.
Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders None.
Item 5. Other Information None.
Item 6. Exhibits Exhibits
47
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 25, 2006
48
Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX
49