.38Table of ContentsAMAZON.COM, INC.CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS(in millions, except per share data) See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.39Table of ContentsAMAZON.COM, INC.CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME(in millions)See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.40Table of ContentsAMAZON.COM, INC.CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS(in millions, except per share data) See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.41Table of ContentsAMAZON.COM, INC.CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY(in millions) See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.42Table of ContentsAMAZON.COM, INC.NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTSNote 1--DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND ACCOUNTING POLICIESDescription of BusinessAmazon.com opened its virtual doors on the World Wide Web in July 1995. We seek to be Earth's most customer-centric company. In each of our two geographic segments, we serve our primary customer sets, consisting of consumers, sellers, enterprises, and content creators. We serve consumers through our retail websites and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We also manufacture and sell electronic devices. We offer programs that enable sellers to sell their products on our websites and their own branded websites and to fulfill orders through us, and programs that allow authors, musicians, filmmakers, app developers, and others to publish and sell content. We serve developers and enterprises of all sizes through AWS, which provides access to technology infrastructure that enables virtually any type of business. In addition, we provide services, such as advertising services and co-branded credit card agreements.We have organized our operations into two segments: North America and International. See "Note 12--Segment Information." Prior Period Reclassifications Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation, including the expanded presentation of "Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities" on our consolidated statements of cash flows and components of the provision for income taxes in "Note 11--Income Taxes."Principles of ConsolidationThe consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Amazon.com, Inc., its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and those entities in which we have a variable interest and of which we are the primary beneficiary (collectively, the "Company"). Intercompany balances and transactions between consolidated entities are eliminated.Use of EstimatesThe preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited to, determining the selling price of products and services in multiple element revenue arrangements and determining the lives of these elements, incentive discount offers, sales returns, vendor funding, stock-based compensation forfeiture rates, income taxes, valuation and impairment of investments, inventory valuation and inventory purchase commitments, collectability of receivables, valuation of acquired intangibles and goodwill, depreciable lives of property and equipment, internal-use software and website development costs, acquisition purchase price allocations, investments in equity interests, and contingencies. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.Earnings per ShareBasic earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares. Diluted earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares including the dilutive effect of stock awards as determined under the treasury stock method. In periods when we have a net loss, stock awards of 17 million and 15 million in 2014 and 2012, were excluded as their inclusion would have an antidilutive effect.The following table shows the calculation of diluted shares (in millions):43Table of ContentsRevenueWe recognize revenue from product sales or services rendered when the following four criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or service has been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units and revenue is allocated using estimated selling prices if we do not have vendor-specific objective evidence or third-party evidence of the selling prices of the deliverables. We allocate the arrangement price to each of the elements based on the relative selling prices of each element. Estimated selling prices are management's best estimates of the prices that we would charge our customers if we were to sell the standalone elements separately and include considerations of customer demand, prices charged by us and others for similar deliverables, and the price if largely based on the cost of producing the product or service. Sales of our digital devices, including Kindle e-readers, Fire tablets, Fire TVs, Echo, and Fire phones, are considered arrangements with multiple deliverables, consisting of the device, undelivered software upgrades and/or undelivered non-software services such as cloud storage and free trial memberships to other services. The revenue allocated to the device, which is the substantial portion of the total sale price, and related costs are generally recognized upon delivery. Revenue related to undelivered software upgrades and/or undelivered non-software services is deferred and recognized generally on a straight-line basis over the estimated period the software upgrades and non-software services are expected to be provided for each of these devices. Sales of Amazon Prime memberships are also considered arrangements with multiple deliverables, including shipping benefits, Prime Instant Video, Prime Music, Prime Photo, and access to the Kindle Owners' Lending Library. The revenue related to the deliverables is amortized over the life of the membership based on the estimated delivery of services. Amazon Prime membership fees are allocated between product sales and service sales. Costs to deliver Amazon Prime benefits are recognized as cost of sales as incurred. As we add more benefits to the Prime membership, we will update the method of determining the estimated selling prices of each element as well as the allocation of Prime membership fees. We evaluate whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of product sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are primarily obligated in a transaction, are subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue is recorded at the gross sale price. We generally record the net amounts as commissions earned if we are not primarily obligated and do not have latitude in establishing prices. Such amounts earned are determined using a fixed percentage, a fixed-payment schedule, or a combination of the two.Product sales represent revenue from the sale of products and related shipping fees and digital media content where we record revenue gross. Product sales and shipping revenues, net of promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes to customers. Retail sales to customers are made pursuant to a sales contract that provides for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon our delivery to the carrier. Amazon's electronic devices sold through retailers are recognized at the point of sale to consumers. Service sales represent third-party seller fees earned (including commissions) and related shipping fees, digital content subscriptions, and non-retail activities such as AWS, advertising services, and our co-branded credit card agreements. Service sales, net of promotional discounts and return allowances, are recognized when service has been rendered. Return allowances, which reduce revenue, are estimated using historical experience. Allowance for returns was $147 million, $167 million, and $198 million as of December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012. Additions to the allowance were $1.1 billion, $907 million, and $702 million, and deductions to the allowance were $1.1 billion, $938 million, and $659 million as of December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012. Revenue from product sales and services rendered is recorded net of sales and consumption taxes. Additionally, we periodically provide incentive offers to our customers to encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such as percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such as offers for future discounts subject to a minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to the purchase price of the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to purchase price based on estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are presented as a net amount in "Total net sales."Cost of SalesCost of sales consists of the purchase price of consumer products and digital media content where we record revenue gross, including Prime Instant Video, packaging supplies, and inbound and outbound shipping costs, including sortation and delivery centers, and related equipment costs. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory, and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. Payment processing and related transaction 44Table of Contentscosts, including those associated with seller transactions, are classified in "Fulfillment" on our consolidated statements of operations.Vendor AgreementsWe have agreements with our vendors to receive funds for cooperative marketing efforts, promotions, and volume rebates. We generally consider amounts received from vendors to be a reduction of the prices we pay for their goods or services, and therefore record those amounts as a reduction of the cost of inventory or cost of services. Vendor rebates are typically dependent upon reaching minimum purchase thresholds. We evaluate the likelihood of reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts. When volume rebates can be reasonably estimated, we record a portion of the rebate as we make progress towards the purchase threshold.When we receive direct reimbursements for costs incurred by us in advertising the vendor's product or service, the amount we receive is recorded as an offset to "Marketing" on our consolidated statements of operations.FulfillmentFulfillment costs represent those costs incurred in operating and staffing our fulfillment and customer service centers, including costs attributable to buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; payment processing and related transaction costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain seller transactions; responding to inquiries from customers; and supply chain management for our manufactured electronic devices. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid to third parties that assist us in fulfillment and customer service operations.MarketingMarketing costs consist primarily of targeted online advertising, television advertising, public relations expenditures, and payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing, business development, and selling activities. We pay commissions to participants in our Associates program when their customer referrals result in product sales and classify such costs as "Marketing" on our consolidated statements of operations. We also participate in cooperative advertising arrangements with certain of our vendors, and other third parties.Advertising and other promotional costs are expensed as incurred and were $3.3 billion, $2.4 billion, and $2.0 billion in 2014, 2013, and 2012. Prepaid advertising costs were not significant as of December 31, 2014 and 2013.Technology and ContentTechnology costs consist principally of research and development activities including payroll and related expenses for employees involved in application, production, maintenance, operation, and platform development for new and existing products and services, as well as AWS and other technology infrastructure expenses.Content costs consist principally of payroll and related expenses for employees involved in category expansion, editorial content, buying, and merchandising selection.Technology and content costs are expensed as incurred, except for certain costs relating to the development of internal-use software and website development, including software used to upgrade and enhance our websites and applications supporting our business, which are capitalized and amortized over two years.General and AdministrativeGeneral and administrative expenses consist of payroll and related expenses for employees involved in general corporate functions, including accounting, finance, tax, legal, and human resources, among others; costs associated with use by these functions of facilities and equipment, such as depreciation expense and rent; professional fees and litigation costs; and other general corporate costs.Stock-Based CompensationCompensation cost for all stock awards expected to vest is measured at fair value on the date of grant and recognized over the service period. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock and the fair value of stock options are estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes model. Such value is recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method. The estimated number of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated 45Table of Contentsestimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including employee classification, economic environment, and historical experience.Other Operating Expense (Income), NetOther operating expense (income), net, consists primarily of intangible asset amortization expense and expenses related to legal settlements.Other Income (Expense), NetOther income (expense), net, consists primarily of foreign currency losses of $(127) million, $(137) million, and $(95) million in 2014, 2013, and 2012, and realized gains and losses on marketable securities sales of $3 million, $(1) million, and $10 million in 2014, 2013, and 2012.Income TaxesIncome tax expense includes U.S. (federal and state) and foreign income taxes. Except as required under U.S. tax laws, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. If our intent changes or if these funds are needed for our U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue or pay U.S. taxes on some or all of these undistributed earnings and our effective tax rate would be adversely affected. Undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that are indefinitely invested outside of the U.S were $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2014. Determination of the unrecognized deferred tax liability that would be incurred if such amounts were repatriated is not practicable.Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered.Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe they will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative earnings experience and expectations of future taxable income and capital gains by taxing jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. We allocate our valuation allowance to current and long-term deferred tax assets on a pro-rata basis.We utilize a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain income tax positions (tax contingencies). The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We consider many factors when evaluating our tax positions and estimating our tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately forecast actual outcomes. We include interest and penalties related to our tax contingencies in income tax expense.Fair Value of Financial InstrumentsFair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. To increase the comparability of fair value measures, the following hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation methodologies used to measure fair value:Level 1--Valuations based on quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets.Level 2--Valuations based on observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data.Level 3--Valuations based on unobservable inputs reflecting our own assumptions, consistent with reasonably available assumptions made by other market participants. These valuations require significant judgment.For our cash, cash equivalents, or marketable securities, we measure the fair value of money market funds and equity securities based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. All other financial instruments were valued either based on recent trades of securities in inactive markets or based on quoted market prices of similar instruments and other significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data. We did not hold any cash, cash equivalents, or marketable securities categorized as Level 3 assets as of December 31, 2014, or December 31, 2013.46Table of ContentsAs part of entering into commercial agreements, we often obtain equity warrant assets giving us the right to acquire stock primarily in private companies. We record these assets in "Other assets" on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Equity warrant assets are classified as Level 3 assets, and the balances and related activity for our equity warrant assets were not significant for the periods ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012. Cash and Cash EquivalentsWe classify all highly liquid instruments with an original maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase as cash equivalents.InventoriesInventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the FIFO method, and are valued at the lower of cost or market value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. We provide Fulfillment by Amazon services in connection with certain of our sellers' programs. Third-party sellers maintain ownership of their inventory, regardless of whether fulfillment is provided by us or the third-party sellers, and therefore these products are not included in our inventories.We also purchase electronic device components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate component supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers. A portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm, non-cancellable commitments. These commitments are based on forecasted customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional costs. Accounts Receivable, Net and OtherIncluded in "Accounts receivable, net and other" on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to vendor and customer receivables. As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, vendor receivables, net, were $1.4 billion and $1.3 billion, and customer receivables, net, were $1.9 billion and $1.7 billion.We estimate losses on receivables based on known troubled accounts and historical experience of losses incurred. Receivables are considered impaired and written-off when it is probable that all contractual payments due will not be collected in accordance with the terms of the agreement. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $190 million, $153 million, and $116 million as of December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012. Additions to the allowance were $225 million, $172 million, and $136 million, and deductions to the allowance were $188 million, $135 million, and $102 million as of December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012.Internal-use Software and Website DevelopmentCosts incurred to develop software for internal use and our websites are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life of the software. Costs related to design or maintenance of internal-use software and website development are expensed as incurred. For the years ended 2014, 2013, and 2012, we capitalized $641 million (including $104 million of stock-based compensation), $581 million (including $87 million of stock-based compensation), and $454 million (including $74 million of stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization of previously capitalized amounts was $559 million, $451 million, and $327 million for 2014, 2013, and 2012.Property and Equipment, NetProperty and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Property includes buildings and land that we own, along with property we have acquired under build-to-suit, financing, and capital lease arrangements. Equipment includes assets such as furniture and fixtures, heavy equipment, servers and networking equipment, and internal-use software and website development. Depreciation is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets (generally the lesser of 40 years or the remaining life of the underlying building, two years for assets such as internal-use software, three years for our servers, five years for networking equipment, five years for furniture and fixtures, and ten years for heavy equipment). Depreciation expense is classified within the corresponding operating expense categories on our consolidated statements of operations.47Table of ContentsLeases and Asset Retirement ObligationsWe categorize leases at their inception as either operating or capital leases. On certain of our lease agreements, we may receive rent holidays and other incentives. We recognize lease costs on a straight-line basis without regard to deferred payment terms, such as rent holidays, that defer the commencement date of required payments. Additionally, incentives we receive are treated as a reduction of our costs over the term of the agreement. Leasehold improvements are capitalized at cost and amortized over the lesser of their expected useful life or the non-cancellable term of the lease.We establish assets and liabilities for the estimated construction costs incurred under build-to-suit lease arrangements to the extent we are involved in the construction of structural improvements or take construction risk prior to commencement of a lease. Upon occupancy of facilities under build-to-suit leases, we assess whether these arrangements qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance. If we continue to be the deemed owner, the facilities are accounted for as finance leases.We establish assets and liabilities for the present value of estimated future costs to retire long-lived assets at the termination or expiration of a lease. Such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted to the future value of the estimated retirement costs.GoodwillWe evaluate goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value or qualitative factors indicate that it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on expected category expansion, pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions.We conduct our annual impairment test as of October 1 of each year, and have determined there to be no impairment for any of the periods presented. There were no triggering events identified from the date of our assessment through December 31, 2014 that would require an update to our annual impairment test. See "Note 4--Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets."Other AssetsIncluded in "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to acquired intangible assets, net of amortization; acquired digital media content, net of amortization; long-term deferred tax assets; certain equity investments; marketable securities restricted for longer than one year, the majority of which are attributable to collateralization of bank guarantees and debt related to our international operations; intellectual property rights, net of amortization; and equity warrant assets.Content CostsWe obtain video and music content to be made available to Prime members through licensing agreements that have a wide range of licensing provisions and generally have terms from one to five years with fixed payment schedules. When the license fee for a specific movie, television, or music title is determinable or reasonably estimable and available for streaming, we recognize an asset representing the fee per title and a corresponding liability for the amounts owed. We relieve the liability as payments are made and we amortize the asset as cost of sales on a straight-line basis over each title's contractual window of availability, which typically ranges from six months to five years. If we are unable to reasonably estimate the cost per title, no asset or liability is recorded and licensing costs are expensed as incurred. We also develop original content. The production costs of internally developed content are capitalized only if persuasive evidence exists that the production will generate revenue. Because we have limited history to support the economic benefits of our content, we have generally expensed such costs as incurred. As we develop more experience or otherwise obtain the necessary evidence that future revenue will be earned through licensing or Prime membership activity, a portion of future production costs may be capitalized.InvestmentsWe generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Such investments are included in "Cash and cash equivalents," or "Marketable securities" on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, classified as available-for-sale, and reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss."48Table of ContentsEquity investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting if the investment gives us the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over an investee. The total of our investments in equity-method investees, including identifiable intangible assets, deferred tax liabilities, and goodwill, is included within "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets. Our share of the earnings or losses as reported by equity-method investees, amortization of the related intangible assets, and related gains or losses, if any, are classified as "Equity-method investment activity, net of tax" on our consolidated statements of operations. Our share of the net income or loss of our equity-method investees includes operating and non-operating gains and charges, which can have a significant impact on our reported equity-method investment activity and the carrying value of those investments. In the event that net losses of the investee reduce our equity-method investment carrying amount to zero, additional net losses may be recorded if other investments in the investee, not accounted for under the equity method, are at-risk even if we have not committed to provide financial support to the investee. We regularly evaluate these investments, which are not carried at fair value, for other-than-temporary impairment. We also consider whether our equity-method investments generate sufficient cash flows from their operating or financing activities to meet their obligations and repay their liabilities when they come due.We record purchases, including incremental purchases, of shares in equity-method investees at cost. Reductions in our ownership percentage of an investee, including through dilution, are generally valued at fair value, with the difference between fair value and our recorded cost reflected as a gain or loss in our equity-method investment activity. In the event we no longer have the ability to exercise significant influence over an equity-method investee, we would discontinue accounting for the investment under the equity method.Equity investments without readily determinable fair values for which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for using the cost method of accounting and classified as "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets. Under the cost method, investments are carried at cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines in fair value, certain distributions, and additional investments.Equity investments that have readily determinable fair values are classified as available-for-sale and are included in "Marketable securities" in our consolidated balance sheets and are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss."We periodically evaluate whether declines in fair values of our investments below their book value are other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists of several qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the severity and duration of the unrealized loss as well as our ability and intent to hold the investment until a forecasted recovery occurs. Additionally, we assess whether we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not we will be required to sell any investment before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Factors considered include quoted market prices; recent financial results and operating trends; implied values from any recent transactions or offers of investee securities; credit quality of debt instrument issuers; other publicly available information that may affect the value of our investments; duration and severity of the decline in value; and our strategy and intentions for holding the investment.Long-Lived AssetsLong-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable.For long-lived assets used in operations, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset's carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when certain criteria are met, including when management has committed to a plan to sell the asset, the asset is available for sale in its immediate condition, and the sale is probable within one year of the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported at the lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell. Assets held for sale were not significant as of December 31, 2014 or 2013.Accrued Expenses and OtherIncluded in "Accrued expenses and other" on our consolidated balance sheets are liabilities primarily related to unredeemed gift cards, leases and asset retirement obligations, current debt, acquired digital media content, and other operating expenses. 49Table of ContentsAs of December 31, 2014 and 2013 our liabilities for unredeemed gift cards was $1.7 billion and $1.4 billion. We reduce the liability for a gift card when redeemed by a customer. If a gift card is not redeemed, we recognize revenue when it expires or when the likelihood of its redemption becomes remote, generally two years from the date of issuance.Unearned RevenueUnearned revenue is recorded when payments are received in advance of performing our service obligations and is recognized over the service period. Unearned revenue primarily relates to prepayments of Amazon Prime memberships and AWS services. Foreign CurrencyWe have internationally-focused websites for the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Japan, Canada, China, Italy, Spain, Brazil, India, Mexico, Australia, and the Netherlands. Net sales generated from these websites, as well as most of the related expenses directly incurred from those operations, are denominated in local functional currencies. The functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support these websites is generally the same as the local currency. Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars at period-end foreign exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated at average rates prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are included in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss," a separate component of stockholders' equity, and in the "Foreign-currency effect on cash and cash equivalents," on our consolidated statements of cash flows. Transaction gains and losses including intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity involved are included in "Other income (expense), net" on our consolidated statements of operations. In connection with the settlement and remeasurement of intercompany balances, we recorded losses of $98 million, $84 million, and $95 million in 2014, 2013, and 2012.Recent Accounting PronouncementsIn May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued an Accounting Standard Update ("ASU") amending revenue recognition guidance and requiring more detailed disclosures to enable users of financial statements to understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. The guidance is effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, with early adoption prohibited. We are currently evaluating the impact this ASU will have on our consolidated financial statements.50Table of ContentsNote 2--CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND MARKETABLE SECURITIESAs of December 31, 2014 and 2013, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities primarily consisted of cash, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, AAA-rated money market funds, and other investment grade securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are recorded at fair value. The following table summarizes, by major security type, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis and are categorized using the fair value hierarchy (in millions): ___________________51Table of ContentsThe following table summarizes gross gains and gross losses realized on sales of available-for-sale marketable securities (in millions):The following table summarizes the contractual maturities of our cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities as of December 31, 2014 (in millions):Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have certain prepayment conditions.Note 3--PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENTProperty and equipment, at cost, consisted of the following (in millions): ___________________Depreciation expense on property and equipment was $3.6 billion, $2.5 billion, and $1.7 billion, which includes amortization of property and equipment acquired under capital leases of $1.5 billion, $826 million, and $510 million for 2014, 2013, and 2012. Gross assets remaining under capital leases were $7.9 billion and $4.2 billion as of December 31, 2014 and 2013. Accumulated depreciation associated with capital leases was $3.3 billion and $1.9 billion as of December 31, 2014 and 2013.We capitalize construction in progress and record a corresponding long-term liability for build-to-suit lease agreements where we are considered the owner, for accounting purposes, during the construction period. For buildings under build-to-suit lease arrangements where we have taken occupancy, which do not qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance, we determined that we continue to be the deemed owner of these buildings. This is principally due to our significant investment in tenant improvements. As a result, the buildings are being depreciated over the shorter of their useful lives or the related leases' terms. Additionally, certain build-to-suit lease arrangements and finance leases provide purchase options. Upon occupancy, the long-term construction obligations are considered long-term finance lease obligations with amounts payable during the next 12 months recorded as "Accrued expenses and other." Gross assets remaining under finance leases were $1.4 billion and $578 million as of December 31, 2014 and 2013. Accumulated depreciation associated with finance leases was $87 million and $22 million as of December 31, 2014 and 2013.52Table of ContentsCash paid for interest on capital and finance leases was $86 million, $41 million, and $51 million for 2014, 2013, and 2012.Note 4--ACQUISITIONS, GOODWILL, AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS2014 Acquisition Activity On September 25, 2014, we acquired Twitch Interactive, Inc. ("Twitch") for approximately $842 million in cash, as adjusted for the assumption of options and other items. During 2014, we acquired certain other companies for an aggregate purchase price of $20 million. We acquired Twitch because of its user community and the live streaming experience it provides. The primary reasons for our other 2014 acquisitions were to acquire technologies and know-how to enable Amazon to serve customers more effectively.Acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred and not significant. The aggregate purchase price of these acquisitions was allocated as follows (in millions): ___________________The fair value of assumed stock options of $39 million, estimated using the Black-Scholes model, will be expensed over the remaining service period. We determined the estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets acquired primarily by using the income approach. These assets are included within "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to operating expenses on a straight-line or accelerated basis over their estimated useful lives.Subsequent to September 30, 2014, we made minor measurement period adjustments to the preliminary purchase price allocation that impacted goodwill, customer-related intangible assets, property and equipment, and deferred taxes and are reflected in the table above. We have not retrospectively adjusted our previously reported consolidated financial statements. 53Table of ContentsPro Forma Financial Information - 2014 Acquisition Activity (unaudited)The acquired companies were consolidated into our financial statements starting on their respective acquisition dates. The aggregate net sales and operating loss of the companies acquired was $40 million and $30 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. The following pro forma financial information presents our results as if the current year acquisitions had occurred at the beginning of 2013 (in millions): 2013 Acquisition Activity In 2013, we acquired several companies in cash transactions for an aggregate purchase price of $195 million, resulting in goodwill of $103 million and acquired intangible assets of $83 million. The primary reasons for these acquisitions were to expand our customer base and sales channels and to obtain certain technologies to be used in product development. We determined the estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets acquired primarily by using the income and cost approaches. These assets are included within "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to operating expenses on a straight-line or accelerated basis over their estimated useful lives. Acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred and were not significant.Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because the effects of these acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, were not material to our consolidated results of operations. 2012 Acquisition ActivityIn May 2012, we acquired Kiva Systems, Inc. ("Kiva") for a purchase price of $678 million. The primary reason for this acquisition was to improve fulfillment center productivity. Acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred and were not significant. The aggregate purchase price of this acquisition was allocated as follows (in millions): ___________________The fair value of assumed stock options was estimated using the Black-Scholes model. We determined the estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets acquired primarily by using the income and cost approaches. These assets are included 54Table of Contentswithin "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to operating expenses on a straight-line or accelerated basis over their estimated useful lives.Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because the effect of this acquisition was not material to our consolidated results of operations. GoodwillThe goodwill of the acquired companies is generally not deductible for tax purposes and is primarily related to expected improvements in sales growth from future product and service offerings and new customers and fulfillment center productivity, together with certain intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition. The following summarizes our goodwill activity in 2014 and 2013 by segment (in millions): ___________________Intangible AssetsAcquired intangible assets, included within "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets, consist of the following (in millions): ___________________55Table of ContentsAmortization expense for acquired intangibles was $181 million, $168 million, and $163 million in 2014, 2013, and 2012. Expected future amortization expense of acquired intangible assets as of December 31, 2014 is as follows (in millions): Note 5--EQUITY-METHOD INVESTMENTSLivingSocial's summarized condensed financial information, as provided to us by LivingSocial, is as follows (in millions): ___________________Balance sheet financial information as of December 31, 2013 included $146 million in assets and $122 million in liabilities that LivingSocial classified as held for sale for its Korean operations.As of December 31, 2014, our total investment in LivingSocial is approximately 31% of voting stock and has a book value of $75 million.56Table of ContentsNote 6--LONG-TERM DEBTIn December 2014 and November 2012, we issued $6.0 billion and $3.0 billion of unsecured senior notes as described in the table below (collectively, the "Notes"). As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, the unamortized discount on the Notes was $96 million and $23 million. We also have other long-term debt with a carrying amount, including the current portion, of $881 million and $967 million as of December 31, 2014 and 2013. The face value of our total long-term debt obligations is as follows (in millions):_____________________________Interest on the Notes issued in 2014 is payable semi-annually in arrears in June and December. Interest on the Notes issued in 2012 is payable semi-annually in arrears in May and November. We may redeem the Notes at any time in whole, or from time to time, in part at specified redemption prices. We are not subject to any financial covenants under the Notes. The proceeds from the Notes are used for general corporate purposes. The estimated fair value of the Notes was approximately $9.1 billion and $2.9 billion as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, which is based on quoted prices for our publicly-traded debt as of those dates.The other debt, including the current portion, had a weighted average interest rate of 5.5% as of December 31, 2014 and 2013. We used the net proceeds from the issuance of this debt primarily to fund certain international operations. The estimated fair value of the other long-term debt, which is based on Level 2 inputs, approximated its carrying value as of December 31, 2014 and 2013.As of December 31, 2014, future principal payments for our total debt were as follows (in millions): On September 5, 2014, we entered into an unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Credit Agreement") with a syndicate of lenders that provides us with a borrowing capacity of up to $2.0 billion. The Credit Agreement has a term of two years, but it may be extended for up to three additional one-year terms if approved by the lenders. The initial interest rate applicable to outstanding balances under the Credit Agreement is the London interbank offered rate ("LIBOR") plus 0.625%, under our current credit ratings. If our credit ratings are downgraded this rate could increase to as much as LIBOR plus 1.00%. There were no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2014.57Table of ContentsNote 7--OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIESOur other long-term liabilities are summarized as follows (in millions): Capital and Finance LeasesCertain of our equipment, primarily related to technology infrastructure, and buildings have been acquired under capital leases. Long-term capital lease obligations are as follows (in millions): We continue to be the deemed owner after occupancy of certain facilities that were constructed as build-to-suit lease arrangements and previously reflected as "Construction liabilities." As such, these arrangements are accounted for as finance leases. Long-term finance lease obligations are as follows (in millions):Construction LiabilitiesWe capitalize construction in progress and record a corresponding long-term liability for build-to-suit lease agreements where we are considered the owner during the construction period for accounting purposes. These liabilities primarily relate to our corporate buildings and fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data centers. Tax ContingenciesWe have recorded tax reserves for tax contingencies, inclusive of accrued interest and penalties, for U.S. and foreign income taxes. These contingencies primarily relate to transfer pricing, state income taxes, and research and development credits. See "Note 11--Income Taxes" for discussion of tax contingencies.58Table of ContentsNote 8--COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIESCommitmentsWe have entered into non-cancellable operating, capital, and finance leases for equipment and office, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data center facilities. Rental expense under operating lease agreements was $961 million, $759 million, and $561 million for 2014, 2013, and 2012.The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders for purchases that support normal operations, as of December 31, 2014 (in millions):___________________Pledged AssetsAs of December 31, 2014 and 2013, we have pledged or otherwise restricted $602 million and $482 million of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, and certain property and equipment as collateral for standby and trade letters of credit, guarantees, debt relating to certain international operations, real estate leases, and amounts due to third-party sellers in certain jurisdictions.SuppliersDuring 2014, no vendor accounted for 10% or more of our purchases. We generally do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with our vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits.Legal ProceedingsThe Company is involved from time to time in claims, proceedings, and litigation, including the following:In November 2007, an Austrian copyright collection society, Austro-Mechana, filed lawsuits against Amazon.com International Sales, Inc., Amazon EU Sarl, Amazon.de GmbH, Amazon.com GmbH, and Amazon Logistik in the Commercial Court of Vienna, Austria and in the District Court of Munich, Germany seeking to collect a tariff on blank digital media sold by our EU-based retail websites to customers located in Austria. In July 2008, the German court stayed the German case pending a final decision in the Austrian case. In July 2010, the Austrian court ruled in favor of Austro-Mechana and ordered us to report all sales of products to which the tariff potentially applies for a determination of damages. We contested Austro-Mechana's claim and in September 2010 commenced an appeal in the Commercial Court of Vienna. We lost this appeal and in March 2011 commenced an appeal in the Supreme Court of Austria. In October 2011, the Austrian Supreme Court referred the case to the 59Table of ContentsEuropean Court of Justice (ECJ). In July 2013, the European Court of Justice ruled that EU law does not preclude application of the tariff where certain conditions are met and directed the case back to the Austrian Supreme Court for further proceedings. In October 2013, the Austrian Supreme Court referred the case back to the Commercial Court of Vienna for further fact finding to determine whether the tariff on blank digital media meets the conditions set by the ECJ. In December 2012, a German copyright collection society, Zentralstelle fur private Uberspielungsrechte (ZPU), filed a complaint against Amazon EU Sarl, Amazon Media EU Sarl, Amazon Services Europe Sarl, Amazon Payments Europe SCA, Amazon Europe Holding Technologies SCS, and Amazon Eurasia Holdings Sarl in the District Court of Luxembourg seeking to collect a tariff on blank digital media sold by the Amazon.de retail website to customers located in Germany. In January 2013, a Belgian copyright collection society, AUVIBEL, filed a complaint against Amazon EU Sarl in the Court of First Instance of Brussels, Belgium, seeking to collect a tariff on blank digital media sold by the Amazon.fr retail website to customers located in Belgium. In November 2013, the Belgian court ruled in favor of AUVIBEL and ordered us to report all sales of products to which the tariff potentially applies for a determination of damages. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these matters.In May 2009, Big Baboon, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon Payments, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our third-party selling and payments technology infringes patents owned by Big Baboon, Inc. purporting to cover an "Integrated Business-to-Business Web Commerce And Business Automation System" (U.S. Patent Nos. 6,115,690 and 6,343,275) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, treble damages, costs, and attorneys' fees. In February 2011, the Court entered an order staying the lawsuit pending the outcome of the Patent and Trademark Office's re-examination of the patent. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.In April 2011, Walker Digital LLC filed several complaints against Amazon.com, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaints allege that we infringe several of the plaintiff's U.S. patents by, among other things, providing "cross benefits" to customers through our promotions (U.S. Patent Nos. 7,831,470 and 7,827,056), using a customer's identified original product to offer a substitute product (U.S. Patent No. 7,236,942), using our product recommendations and personalization features to offer complementary products together (U.S. Patent Nos. 6,601,036 and 6,138,105), enabling customers to subscribe to a delivery schedule for products they routinely use at reduced prices (U.S. Patent No. 5,970,470), and offering personalized advertising based on customers' preferences identified using a data pattern (U.S. Patent No. 7,933,893). Another complaint, filed in the same court in October 2011, alleges that we infringe plaintiff's U.S. Patent No. 8,041,711 by offering personalized advertising based on customer preferences that associate data with resource locators. Another complaint, filed in the same court in February 2012, alleges that we infringe plaintiff's U.S. Patent No. 8,112,359 by using product information received from customers to identify and offer substitute products using a manufacturer database. In January 2013, the plaintiff filed another complaint in the same court alleging that we infringe U.S. Patent No. 6,381,582 by allowing customers to make local payments for products ordered online. All of the complaints seek monetary damages, interest, injunctive relief, costs, and attorneys' fees. In March 2013, the complaints asserting U.S. Patent Nos. 7,236,942 and 7,933,893 were voluntarily dismissed with prejudice. In April 2013, the case asserting U.S. Patent No. 8,041,711 was stayed pending final resolution of the reexamination of that patent. In June 2013, the court granted defendants' motions to dismiss the complaints asserting U.S. Patent Nos. 7,831,470, 7,827,056, and 8,112,359 for lack of standing. In July 2013, we filed motions seeking entry of a final judgment dismissing those claims with prejudice and for attorneys' fees, and plaintiff filed notices of appeal from the June 2013 order granting the motions to dismiss. In October 2013, the court ruled that its dismissals are with prejudice, and Walker has appealed those rulings. In March 2014, the court stayed the case asserting U.S. Patent Nos. 6,601,036 and 6,138,105 pending the appeal of the cases asserting U.S. Patent Nos. 7,831,470, 7,827,056, and 8,112,359. In September 2014, the court dismissed the matter asserting U.S. Patent No. 6,381,582 with prejudice. In January 2015, the court dismissed with prejudice the complaint asserting U.S. Patent No. 8,041,711, and the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed the dismissal of the complaints asserting U.S. Patent Nos. 7,831,470, 7,827,056, and 8,112,359. We dispute the remaining allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these matters.In March 2012, OIP Technologies, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The complaint alleged, among other things, that certain aspects of our pricing methods infringed U.S. Patent No. 7,970,713, entitled "Method And Apparatus For Automatic Pricing In Electronic Commerce." The complaint sought three times an unspecified amount of damages, attorneys' fees, and interest. In September 2012, the court invalidated the plaintiff's patent and dismissed the case with prejudice. In September 2012, OIP appealed the judgment of the district court to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, which, in November 2012, stayed all proceedings pending its decision in a separate case that raises a related question of law and, in June 2013, continued the stay pending a decision by the United States Supreme Court. In July 2014, the court of appeals lifted the stay. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.In June 2012, Hand Held Products, Inc., a subsidiary of Honeywell, filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc., AMZN Mobile, LLC, AmazonFresh, LLC, A9.com, Inc., A9 Innovations, LLC, and Quidsi, Inc. in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the use of mobile barcode reader applications, 60Table of Contentsincluding Amazon Mobile, Amazon Price Check, Flow, and AmazonFresh, infringes U.S. Patent No. 6,015,088, entitled "Decoding Of Real Time Video Imaging." The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, interest, and an injunction. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.In July 2012, Norman Blagman filed a purported class-action complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. for copyright infringement in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon.com, Inc. sells digital music in our Amazon MP3 Store obtained from defendant Orchard Enterprises and other unnamed "digital music aggregators" without obtaining mechanical licenses for the compositions embodied in that music. The complaint seeks certification as a class action, statutory damages, attorneys' fees, and interest. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.In August 2012, an Australian quasi-government entity named Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the sale of "products which are operable according to the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers ("IEEE") 802.11a, g, n, and/or draft n standards" infringe U.S. Patent No. 5,487,069, entitled "Wireless LAN." The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, attorneys' fees, and injunctive relief. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.In November 2012, Lexington Luminance LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon Digital Services, Inc. in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain light-emitting diodes in certain Kindle devices infringe U.S. Patent No. 6,936,851, entitled "Semiconductor Light-Emitting Device And Method For Manufacturing Same." The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages and an injunction or, in the absence of an injunction, a compulsory ongoing royalty. In March 2014, the Court invalidated the plaintiff's patent and dismissed the case with prejudice, and the plaintiff appealed the judgment to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.In May 2013, Adaptix, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain Kindle devices infringe U.S. Patent Nos. 7,454,212 and 6,947,748, both entitled "OFDMA With Adaptive Subcarrier-Cluster Configuration And Selective Loading." The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, interest, injunctive relief, and attorneys' fees. In March 2014, the case was transferred to the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.In July 2013, Telebuyer, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc., Amazon Web Services, LLC, and VADATA, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain features used on our retail website--including high resolution video and still images, user-indicated areas of interest, targeted follow-up communications, vendor proposals, on-line chat, Gold Box and Lightning Deals, and vendor ratings--infringe seven U.S. patents: Nos. 6,323,894, 7,835,508, 7,835,509, 7,839,984, 8,059,796, and 8,098,272, all entitled "Commercial Product Routing System With Video Vending Capability," and 8,315,364, entitled "Commercial Product Routing System With Mobile Wireless And Video Vending Capability." The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, interest, and injunctive relief. In September 2013, the case was transferred to the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.In August 2013, Cellular Communications Equipment, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain Kindle devices infringe U.S. Patent Nos.: 6,819,923, entitled "Method For Communication Of Neighbor Cell Information"; 7,215,962, entitled "Method For An Intersystem Connection Handover"; 7,941,174, entitled "Method For Multicode Transmission By A Subscriber Station"; and 8,055,820 entitled "Apparatus, System, And Method For Designating A Buffer Status Reporting Format Based On Detected Pre-Selected Buffer Conditions." In March 2014, the plaintiff filed an amended complaint that alleges, among other things, that certain Kindle devices infringe U.S. Patent No. 8,055,820, entitled "Apparatus, System, And Method For Designating A Buffer Status Reporting Format Based On Detected Pre-Selected Buffer Conditions." The amended complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages and interest. In January 2015, the court dismissed with prejudice the claim of infringement of U.S. Patent No. 7,215,962. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.Beginning in August 2013, a number of complaints were filed alleging, among other things, that Amazon.com, Inc. and several of its subsidiaries failed to compensate hourly workers for time spent waiting in security lines and otherwise violated federal and state wage and hour statutes and common law. In August 2013, Busk v. Integrity Staffing Solutions, Inc. and Amazon.com, Inc. was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Nevada, and Vance v. Amazon.com, Inc., Zappos.com Inc., another affiliate of Amazon.com, Inc., and Kelly Services, Inc. was filed in the United States District Court for the Western District of Kentucky. In September 2013, Allison v. Amazon.com, Inc. and Integrity Staffing Solutions, Inc. was filed in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington, and Johnson v. Amazon.com, Inc. and an 61Table of Contentsaffiliate of Amazon.com, Inc. was filed in the United States District Court for the Western District of Kentucky. In October 2013, Davis v. Amazon.com, Inc., an affiliate of Amazon.com, Inc., and Integrity Staffing Solutions, Inc. was filed in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee. The plaintiffs variously purport to represent a nationwide class of certain current and former employees under the Fair Labor Standards Act and/or state-law-based subclasses for certain current and former employees in states including Arizona, California, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Kentucky, and Nevada, and one complaint asserts nationwide breach of contract and unjust enrichment claims. The complaints seek an unspecified amount of damages, interest, injunctive relief, and attorneys' fees. We have been named in several other similar cases. In December 2014, the Supreme Court ruled in Busk that time spent waiting for and undergoing security screening is not compensable working time under the federal wage and hour statute. We dispute any remaining allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these matters.In September 2013, Personalized Media Communications, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon Web Services, LLC in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the use of certain Kindle devices, Kindle apps and/or Amazon.com, Inc.'s website to purchase and receive electronic media infringes nine U.S. Patents: Nos. 5,887,243, 7,801,304, 7,805,749, 7,940,931, 7,769,170, 7,864,956, 7,827,587, 8,046,791, and 7,883,252, all entitled "Signal Processing Apparatus And Methods." The complaint also alleges, among other things, that CloudFront, S3, and EC2 web services infringe three of those patents, Nos. 7,801,304, 7,864,956, and 7,827,587. The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, interest, and injunctive relief. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.In October 2013, Mobile Telecommunications Technologies, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that our network operation centers and our mobile devices, such as Kindle Fire models based on the Android operating system that provide XMPP-compliant messaging services and applications, infringe U.S. Patent No. 5,809,428, entitled "Method And Device For Processing Undelivered Data Messages In A Two-Way Wireless Communications System." The complaint also alleges that Amazon's mobile devices infringe U.S. Patent No. 5,754,946, entitled "Nationwide Communication System," and that Amazon.com, Inc. infringes U.S. Patent No. 5,786,748, entitled "Method And Apparatus For Giving Notification Of Express Mail Delivery," by providing tracking and notification services to customers who purchase products directly from Amazon.com, Inc. The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, attorneys' fees, costs, interest, and injunctive relief. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.In October 2013, Tuxis Technologies, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for District of Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that "the Amazon.com website" with "recommendation features" infringes U.S. Patent No. 6,055,513, entitled "Methods And Apparatus For Intelligent Selection Of Goods And Services In Telephonic And Electronic Commerce." The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, attorneys' fees, costs, and interest. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.In November 2013, Memory Integrity, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain Kindle devices infringe U.S. Patent No. 7,296,121, entitled "Reducing Probe Traffic In Multiprocessor Systems." The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, costs, expenses, and interest. In December 2014, the case was stayed pending resolution of review petitions filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.In November 2013, Vantage Point Technology, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Kindle devices with a Cortex A-9 core processor and OMAP 4430 chipset, Kindle device HD tablets with a Cortex A-9 core processor and OMAP 4470 chipset, and Kindle devices with a Cortex A-8 core processor and Freescale MX50 family chipset infringe U.S. Patent No. 5,463,750, entitled "Method And Apparatus For Translating Virtual Addresses In A Data Processing System Having Multiple Instruction Pipelines And Separate TLB's For Each Pipeline." The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, costs, and interest. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.In December 2013, Appistry, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon Web Services, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon's Elastic Compute Cloud infringes U.S. Patent Nos. 8,200,746, entitled "System And Method For Territory-Based Processing Of Information," and 8,341,209, entitled "System And Method For Processing Information Via Networked Computers Including Request Handlers, Process Handlers, And Task Handlers." The complaint seeks injunctive relief, an unspecified amount of monetary damages, treble damages, costs, and interest. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. 62Table of ContentsIn December 2013, ContentGuard Holdings, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain digital rights management software used by various Kindle Fire software applications, including the Kindle Reader and Amazon Instant Video, infringe seven U.S. Patents: Nos. 6,963,859, entitled "Content Rendering Repository"; 7,523,072, entitled "System For Controlling The Distribution And Use Of Digital Works"; 7,269,576, entitled "Content Rendering Apparatus"; 8,370,956, entitled "System And Method For Rendering Digital Content In Accordance With Usage Rights Information"; 8,393,007, entitled "System And Method For Distributing Digital Content In Accordance With Usage Rights Information"; 7,225,160, entitled "Digital Works Having Usage Rights And Method For Creating The Same"; and 8,583,556, entitled "Method For Providing A Digital Asset For Distribution." In January 2014, ContentGuard filed an amended complaint that, among other things, added HTC Corporation and HTC America as defendants. The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, an injunction, enhanced damages, attorneys' fees, costs, and interest. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.In March 2014, Kaavo, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon Web Services, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon Web Services' Elastic Beanstalk and CloudFormation infringe U.S. Patent No. 8,271,974, entitled "Cloud Computing Lifecycle Management For N-Tier Applications." The complaint seeks injunctive relief, an unspecified amount of monetary damages, costs, and interest. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.In April 2014, Spansion LLC filed complaints for patent infringement against Amazon.com, Inc. in both the United States District Court for the Northern District of California and the United States International Trade Commission. The complaints allege, among other things, that certain Kindle devices infringe U.S. Patent Nos. 6,246,611, entitled "System For Erasing A Memory Cell," and 6,744,666, entitled "Method And System To Minimize Page Programming Time For Flash Memory Devices." The district court complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, attorneys' fees, interest, and injunctive relief. The International Trade Commission complaint seeks an exclusion order preventing the importation of certain Kindle devices into the United States, as well as a cease-and-desist order barring sale of certain Kindle devices after importation. In June 2014, the district court case was stayed pending resolution of the International Trade Commission action. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these matters.In June 2014, SimpleAir, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon Device Messaging and Simple Notification Service infringe U.S Patent Nos. 7,035,914, 8,090,803, 8,572,279, 8,601,154, and 8,639,838, all of which are entitled "System and Method for Transmission of Data." The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, pre-judgment interest, costs, attorneys' fees, enhanced damages, and injunctive relief. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.In December 2014, Smartflash LLC and Smartflash Technologies Limited filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc., Amazon.com, LLC, AMZN Mobile, LLC, Amazon Web Services, Inc. and Audible, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon Appstore, Amazon Instant Video, Amazon Music, Audible Audiobooks, the Amazon Mobile Ad Network, certain Kindle and Fire devices, Kindle e-bookstore, Amazon's proprietary Android operating system, and the servers involved in operating Amazon Appstore, Amazon Instant Video, Amazon Music, the Fire TV app, Audible Audiobooks, Cloud Drive, Cloud Player, Amazon Web Services, and Amazon Mobile Ad Network infringe seven related U.S. Patents: Nos. 7,334,720; 7,942,317; 8,033,458; 8,061,598; 8,118,221; 8,336,772; and 8,794,516, all entitled "Data Storage and Access Systems." The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, an injunction, enhanced damages, attorneys' fees, costs, and interest. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.The outcomes of our legal proceedings are inherently unpredictable, subject to significant uncertainties, and could be material to our operating results and cash flows for a particular period. In addition, for some matters for which a loss is probable or reasonably possible, an estimate of the amount of loss or range of loss is not possible and we may be unable to estimate the possible loss or range of losses that could potentially result from the application of non-monetary remedies.See also "Note 11--Income Taxes."63Table of ContentsNote 9--STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITYPreferred StockWe have authorized 500 million shares of $0.01 par value preferred stock. No preferred stock was outstanding for any period presented.Common StockCommon shares outstanding plus shares underlying outstanding stock awards totaled 483 million, 476 million, and 470 million, as of December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012. These totals include all vested and unvested stock awards outstanding, including those awards we estimate will be forfeited.Stock Repurchase ActivityIn January 2010, our Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to $2.0 billion of our common stock with no fixed expiration. We have $763 million remaining under the $2.0 billion repurchase program.Stock Award PlansEmployees vest in restricted stock unit awards and stock options over the corresponding service term, generally between two and five years.Stock Award ActivityStock options outstanding, which were primarily obtained through acquisitions, totaled 0.4 million, 0.2 million and 0.4 million, as of December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012. The after-tax compensation expense for stock options was not material for 2014, 2013, and 2012, as well as the total intrinsic value for stock options outstanding, the amount of cash received from the exercise of stock options, and the related tax benefits. The following table summarizes our restricted stock unit activity (in millions): Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units as of December 31, 2014, is as follows (in millions):64Table of ContentsAs of December 31, 2014, there was $2.2 billion of net unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock-based compensation arrangements. This compensation is recognized on an accelerated basis with approximately half of the compensation expected to be expensed in the next twelve months, and has a weighted-average recognition period of 1.2 years.During 2014 and 2013, the fair value of restricted stock units that vested was $1.7 billion and $1.4 billion.As matching contributions under our 401(k) savings plan, we granted 0.2 million and 0.1 million shares of common stock in 2014 and 2013. Shares granted as matching contributions under our 401(k) plan are included in outstanding common stock when issued, and recorded as stock-based compensation expense.Common Stock Available for Future IssuanceAs of December 31, 2014, common stock available for future issuance to employees is 137 million shares.Note 10--ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSSChanges in the composition of accumulated other comprehensive loss for 2014, 2013, and 2012 are as follows (in millions): Amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive loss are recorded net of their related income tax effects.Note 11--INCOME TAXESIn 2014, 2013, and 2012, we recorded net tax provisions of $167 million, $161 million, and $428 million. We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. In December 2014, U.S. legislation was enacted providing a one year extension of accelerated depreciation deductions on qualifying property and the U.S. federal research and development credit through 2014. As such, cash taxes paid, net of refunds, were $177 million, $169 million, and $112 million for 2014, 2013, and 2012.The components of the provision for income taxes, net are as follows (in millions):65Table of ContentsU.S. and international components of income before income taxes are as follows (in millions):The items accounting for differences between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate and the provision recorded for income taxes are as follows (in millions): Our provision for income taxes in 2014 was higher than in 2013 primarily due to the increased losses in certain foreign subsidiaries for which we may not realize a tax benefit and audit-related developments, partially offset by the favorable impact of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions. Losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit reduce our pre-tax income without a corresponding reduction in our tax expense, and therefore increase our effective tax rate. We have recorded valuation allowances against the deferred tax assets associated with losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit. Income earned in lower tax jurisdictions is primarily related to our European operations, which are headquartered in Luxembourg. In 2013, our provision for income taxes was lower than in 2012 primarily due to a decline in the proportion of our losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit, the favorable impact of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions, and the retroactive extension in 2013 of the U.S. federal research and development credit to 2012. In 2013, we recognized tax benefits for a greater proportion of losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit, primarily due to losses of certain foreign subsidiaries, as compared to 2012. The favorable impact of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions was primarily related to our European operations.Except as required under U.S. tax laws, we do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that have not been previously taxed since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. If our intent changes or if these funds are needed for our U.S. operations, we would be required to accrue or pay U.S. taxes on some or all of these undistributed earnings and our effective tax rate would be adversely affected. Undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries that are indefinitely invested outside of the U.S were $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2014. Determination of the unrecognized deferred tax liability that would be incurred if such amounts were repatriated is not practicable.66Table of ContentsDeferred income tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in millions): ___________________As of December 31, 2014, our federal, foreign, and state net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $1.9 billion, $2.5 billion, and $1.1 billion. The federal and state net operating loss carryforwards are subject to limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and applicable state tax law. If not utilized, a portion of the federal, foreign, and state net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2020, 2015, and 2015, respectively. As of December 31, 2014, our tax credit carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $506 million. If not utilized, a portion of the tax credit carryforwards will begin to expire in 2017. The Company's consolidated balance sheets reflect deferred tax assets related to net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards excluding amounts resulting from excess stock-based compensation. Amounts related to excess stock-based compensation are accounted for as an increase to additional paid-in capital if and when realized through a reduction in income taxes payable.Tax ContingenciesWe are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties based on estimates of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. These reserves are established when we believe that certain positions might be challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the outcome of 67Table of Contentstax audits. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate.The reconciliation of our tax contingencies is as follows (in millions): ___________________As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, we had accrued interest and penalties, net of federal income tax benefit, related to tax contingencies of $41 million and $33 million. Interest and penalties, net of federal income tax benefit, recognized for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012 was $8 million, $8 million, and $1 million.We are under examination, or may be subject to examination, by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") for the calendar year 2005 and thereafter. These examinations may lead to ordinary course adjustments or proposed adjustments to our taxes or our net operating losses with respect to years under examination as well as subsequent periods. As previously disclosed, we have received Notices of Proposed Adjustment from the IRS for transactions undertaken in the 2005 and 2006 calendar years relating to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries. The IRS is seeking to increase our U.S. taxable income by an amount that would result in additional federal tax of approximately $1.5 billion, subject to interest. To date, we have not resolved this matter administratively and are currently contesting it in U.S. Tax Court. We continue to disagree with these IRS positions and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. In addition to the risk of additional tax for 2005 and 2006 transactions, if this litigation is adversely determined or if the IRS were to seek transfer pricing adjustments of a similar nature for transactions in subsequent years, Amazon could be subject to significant additional tax liabilities. Certain of our subsidiaries are under examination or investigation or may be subject to examination or investigation by the French Tax Administration ("FTA") for calendar year 2006 or thereafter. These examinations may lead to ordinary course adjustments or proposed adjustments to our taxes. While we have not yet received a final assessment from the FTA, in September 2012, we received proposed tax assessment notices for calendar years 2006 through 2010 relating to the allocation of income between foreign jurisdictions. The notices propose additional French tax of approximately $250 million, including interest and penalties through the date of the assessment. We disagree with the proposed assessment and intend to contest it vigorously. We plan to pursue all available administrative remedies at the FTA, and if we are not able to resolve this matter with the FTA, we plan to pursue judicial remedies. In addition, in October 2014, the European Commission opened a formal investigation to examine whether decisions by the tax authorities in Luxembourg with regard to the corporate income tax paid by certain of our subsidiaries comply with European Union rules on state aid. If this matter is adversely resolved, Luxembourg may be required to assess, and we may be required to pay, additional amounts with respect to current and prior periods and our taxes in the future could increase. We are also subject to taxation in various states and other foreign jurisdictions including Canada, China, Germany, India, Japan, Luxembourg, and the United Kingdom. We are under, or may be subject to, audit or examination and additional assessments in respect of these particular jurisdictions for 2003 and thereafter.We expect the total amount of tax contingencies will grow in 2015. In addition, changes in state, federal, and foreign tax laws may increase our tax contingencies. The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain, and the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ from the amounts accrued. It is reasonably possible that within the next 12 months we will receive additional assessments by various tax authorities or possibly reach resolution of income tax examinations in one or more jurisdictions. These assessments or settlements may or may not result in changes to our contingencies related to positions on tax filings in years through 2014. The actual amount of any change could vary significantly depending on the ultimate timing and nature of any settlements. We cannot currently provide an estimate of the range of possible outcomes.68Table of ContentsNote 12--SEGMENT INFORMATIONWe have organized our operations into two segments: North America and International. We present our segment information along the same lines that our Chief Executive Officer reviews our operating results in assessing performance and allocating resources. We expect to change our reportable segments to report North America, International, and AWS, beginning with the first quarter of 2015.We allocate to segment results the operating expenses "Fulfillment," "Marketing," "Technology and content," and "General and administrative," but exclude from our allocations the portions of these expense lines attributable to stock-based compensation. We do not allocate the line item "Other operating expense (income), net" to our segment operating results. Our "Technology and content" costs included in our segments are primarily based on the geographic location of where the costs are incurred, the majority of these costs are incurred in the U.S. and included in our North America segment. There are no internal revenue transactions between our reporting segments.North AmericaThe North America segment consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through North America-focused websites such as and and include amounts earned from AWS. This segment includes export sales from and International segment consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through internationally-focused websites. This segment includes export sales from these internationally based websites (including export sales from these sites to customers in the U.S. and Canada), but excludes export sales from our U.S. and Canadian websites.Information on reportable segments and reconciliation to consolidated net income (loss) is as follows (in millions):___________________69Table of ContentsWe have aggregated our products and services into groups of similar products and services and provided the supplemental disclosure of net sales (in millions) below. We evaluate whether additional disclosure is appropriate when a product or service category begins to approach a significant level of net sales. For the periods presented, no individual product or service represented more than 10% of net sales.___________________Net sales generated from these internationally-focused websites are denominated in local functional currencies. Revenues are translated at average rates prevailing throughout the period. Net sales attributed to foreign countries are as follows (in millions): Total assets, property and equipment, net, and total property and equipment additions, by geography, reconciled to consolidated amounts are (in millions): Except for the U.S., property and equipment, net, in any single country was less than 10% of consolidated property and equipment, net.70Table of ContentsDepreciation expense, by segment, is as follows (in millions): Note 13--QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED)The following tables contain selected unaudited statement of operations information for each quarter of 2014 and 2013. The following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Our business is affected by seasonality, which historically has resulted in higher sales volume during our fourth quarter. Unaudited quarterly results are as follows (in millions, except per share data): ___________________71Table of ContentsNone.Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures We carried out an evaluation required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "1934 Act"), under the supervision and with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the 1934 Act, as of December 31, 2014. Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that, as of December 31, 2014, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the 1934 Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and to provide reasonable assurance that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the 1934 Act. Management has assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014 based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. As a result of this assessment, management concluded that, as of December 31, 2014, our internal control over financial reporting was effective in providing reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Ernst & Young has independently assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and its report is included below. Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2014 that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Limitations on Controls Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting are designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives as specified above. Management does not expect, however, that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all error and fraud. Any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, is based upon certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. Further, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. 72Table of ContentsReport of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Shareholders Amazon.com, Inc. We have audited Amazon.com, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, based on criteria established in Internal Control--Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). Amazon.com, Inc.'s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. In our opinion, Amazon.com, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, based on the COSO criteria. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Amazon.com, Inc. as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2014 of Amazon.com, Inc. and our report dated January 29, 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. /s/ Ernst & Young LLPSeattle, Washington January 29, 2015 73Table of ContentsNone. PART III Information regarding our Executive Officers required by Item 10 of Part III is set forth in Item 1 of Part I "Business--Executive Officers of the Registrant." Information required by Item 10 of Part III regarding our Directors and any material changes to the process by which security holders may recommend nominees to the Board of Directors is included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2015 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and is incorporated herein by reference. Information relating to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and to compliance with Section 16(a) of the 1934 Act is set forth in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2015 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. To the extent permissible under NASDAQ rules, we intend to disclose amendments to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, as well as waivers of the provisions thereof, on our investor relations website under the heading "Corporate Governance" at Information required by Item 11 of Part III is included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2015 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. Information required by Item 12 of Part III is included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2015 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. Information required by Item 13 of Part III is included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2015 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. Information required by Item 14 of Part III is included in our Proxy Statement relating our 2015 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. 74Table of ContentsPART IV (a) List of Documents Filed as a Part of This Report: (1) Index to Consolidated Financial Statements: Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years ended December 31, 2014 Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the three years ended December 31, 2014 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for each of the three years ended December 31, 2014 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for each of the three years ended December 31, 2014 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (2) Index to Financial Statement Schedules: All schedules have been omitted because the required information is included in the consolidated financial statements or the notes thereto, or because it is not required. (3) Index to Exhibits See exhibits listed under the Exhibit Index below. 75Table of ContentsSIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, as of January 29, 2015. Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated as of January 29, 2015. 76Table of ContentsEXHIBIT INDEX 77Table of Contents___________________ 78