10-K
1
v87419ore10vk.htm
FORM 10-K
AMAZON.COM FORM 10-K
Table of Contents
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
Form 10-K
Amazon.com, Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)
1200 12th Avenue South, Suite 1200,
Seattle, Washington 98144-2734
(Address and telephone number, including area
code, of registrant's principal executive
offices)
Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:
None
Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:
Common Stock, par value $.01 per share
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past
90 days. Yes th No o
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. Yes o No th
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is
an accelerated filer (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule 12b-2). Yes th No o
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
The information required by Part III of this
Report, to the extent not set forth herein, is incorporated
herein by reference from the registrant's definitive proxy
statement relating to the annual meeting of stockholders to be
held in 2003, which definitive proxy statement shall be filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days
after the end of the fiscal year to which this Report relates.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
FORM 10-K
For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31,
2002
INDEX
Table of Contents
PART I
Item 1. Business
This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the
documents incorporated herein by reference contain
forward-looking statements based on expectations, estimates and
projections as of the date of this filing. Actual results may
differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking
statements. See Item 7 of Part II --
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations -- Forward-Looking
Statements."
General
Amazon.com, Inc., a Fortune 500 company,
commenced operations on the World Wide Web in July 1995. We seek
to offer Earth's Biggest Selection and to be Earth's
most customer-centric company, where customers can find and
discover anything they may want to buy online. We endeavor to
offer our customers the lowest possible prices. We and our
sellers list millions of unique new, used and collectible items
in categories such as apparel and accessories, electronics,
computers, kitchen and housewares, books, music, DVDs, videos,
cameras and photo items, office products, toys, baby items and
baby registry, software, computer and video games, cell phones
and service, tools and hardware, travel services, magazine
subscriptions and outdoor living items. Through our Merchants@
and Amazon Marketplace programs, zShops and Auctions, any
business or individual can sell virtually anything to
Amazon.com's millions of customers.
We operate six global Web sites:
, , ,
, and . We
also own and operate the Internet Movie Database at
("IMDb"), which is a comprehensive
and authoritative source of information on movie and
entertainment titles and cast and crew members. IMDb offers IMDb
Pro, a subscription service designed for the entertainment
industry.
Amazon.com was incorporated in 1994 in the state
of Washington and reincorporated in 1996 in the state of
Delaware. Our principal corporate offices are located in
Seattle, Washington. We completed our initial public offering in
May 1997 and our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq National
Market under the symbol "AMZN."
As used herein, "Amazon.com,"
"we," "our" and similar terms include
Amazon.com, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context
indicates otherwise.
Business Strategy
We seek to offer Earth's Biggest Selection
and to be Earth's most customer-centric company, where
customers can find and discover anything they might want to buy
online. We have designed our Web sites to allow millions of new,
used and collectible products to be sold by us and by other
businesses and individuals worldwide. A product on our Web sites
may be listed for sale simultaneously by several different
sellers. For instance, a product may be offered by us, by a
participant in our Merchants@ program and by a business or
individual selling a new, used or collectible version of the
product through Amazon Marketplace, zShops or Auctions. We also
offer certain e-commerce services to other businesses through
our Merchant.com and Syndicated Stores programs.
We endeavor to offer our customers the lowest
possible prices. We strive to improve our operating efficiencies
and to leverage our fixed costs so that we can afford to pass
along these savings to our customers in the form of lower
prices. We believe this strategy of lowering prices will, over
time, increase unit growth and lead to further efficiencies.
1
Table of Contents
We are the seller of record on our Web sites for
a broad range of new products, including electronics, computers,
kitchen and housewares, books, music, DVDs, videos, cameras and
photo items, software, computer and video games, cell phones,
tools and hardware and outdoor living items. We purchase these
products from vendors and fulfill them either through our
fulfillment centers or through outsourced fulfillment providers.
Our Merchants@ and Amazon Marketplace programs
allow other businesses and individuals to offer their new, used
and collectible products for sale on our Web sites. Their
products are fully integrated on our Web sites and are purchased
by customers through a single checkout process. We are not the
seller of record in these transactions, but instead earn fixed
fees, sales commissions, per-unit activity fees, or some
combination thereof. We also sometimes offer fulfillment-related
services under this program. Examples of our Merchants@ program
include our apparel store at , which offers
more than 500 brands, as well as the Toysrus.com,
Babiesrus.com and Target stores at . Amazon
Marketplace is available on , ,
and . In addition,
other businesses and individuals can auction products through
our Auction sites and offer products on individual specialty
stores through our zShops sites.
Through our Merchant.com program we utilize our
e-commerce services, features and technologies to operate
another business's Web site and sell its products under its
brand name and URL (an example is ). We
also offer fulfillment-related services through our Merchant.com
program. We are not the seller of record, but instead earn fixed
fees, sales commissions, per-unit activity fees, or some
combination thereof.
Through our Syndicated Stores program, we utilize
our e-commerce services, features and technologies to sell our
products through another business's Web site using another
business's name and URL. Under these arrangements, we are
the seller of record and are responsible for fulfillment and
customer service. The other business earns a sales commission on
the products sold. Examples include ,
, , ,
and , among
others.
Operating Segments
Beginning in 2001, we organized our operations
into four principal segments: North America Books, Music and
DVD/ Video ("BMVD"); North America Electronics, Tools
and Kitchen ("ETK"); International; and Services. See
Item 8 of Part II, "Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data -- Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements -- Note 15 -- Segment
Information" for additional information regarding our
segments.
BMVD Segment. This
segment includes retail sales from and
of books, music and DVD/video products and
magazine subscription commissions. This segment also includes
commissions from sales of these products, new, used or
collectible, through Amazon Marketplace and amounts earned from
sales of these products by other businesses through our
Merchants@ program and product revenues from stores offering
these products through our Syndicated Stores program.
Our BMVD segment had net sales of
$1.87 billion, $1.69 billion and $1.70 billion in
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. In 2002, we launched our
Canada-focused Web site at and launched
Syndicated Stores at and
. In addition, we added in-store
pickup to
2
Table of Contents
our Syndicated Store and
added over 50,000 magazine, newspaper and newsletter titles
to our Magazine store at .
ETK Segment. This
segment includes retail sales of
electronics, home improvement and home and garden products, as
well as our mail-order catalog sales. This segment also includes
commissions from sales of these products, new, used or
collectible, through Amazon Marketplace and amounts earned from
sales of these products by other businesses through our
Merchants@ program, such as with Office Depot, and will include
revenues from stores offering these products, if any, through
our Syndicated Stores program.
Our ETK segment had net sales of
$645 million, $547 million and $484 million in
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. During 2002, we launched our
Office Depot store at .
International Segment.
This segment includes all retail sales
of the following internationally-focused Web sites:
, , and
. These international sites share a
common Amazon.com experience, but are localized in terms of
language, products, customer service and fulfillment. To the
extent available on these sites, this segment includes
commissions and other amounts earned from sales of products
through Amazon Marketplace and product revenues from stores
offering products through our Syndicated Stores program, such as
and ,
and amounts earned from sales of products by other businesses
through our Merchants@ program.
Our International segment includes export sales
from , , and
(including export sales from these sites
to customers in the U.S. and Canada), but excludes export sales
from and . Our
International segment had net sales of $1.17 billion,
$661 million and $381 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively. In 2002, ,
and each launched Amazon
Marketplace. In addition, the Syndicated Store at
was launched, and
launched a magazine and periodicals store.
Services Segment.
This segment consists of commissions, fees and other amounts
earned from our services business, including our Merchant.com
program (such as ), and to the extent full
product categories are not also offered by us through our online
retail stores, our Merchants@ program, such as our apparel
store, the Toysrus.com and Babiesrus.com stores, and portions of
the Target store at , as well as our
commercial agreement with America Online, Inc. This segment also
includes Auctions, zShops, Amazon Payments and miscellaneous
marketing and promotional agreements.
The Services segment had net sales of
$246 million, $225 million and $198 million in
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. In 2002, we launched our
apparel store which now has more than 500 popular brands of
clothing, shoes and accessories offered by our Merchants@
program participants. In addition, we launched
under our Merchant.com program.
Amazon.com Web Sites
Our Web sites promote brand loyalty and repeat
purchases by providing feature-rich content, a secure and
trusted transaction environment and easy-to-use functionality.
Our Web sites offer broad selection, low prices, availability,
convenience, discovery and fulfillment. Key features include
product reviews and other information, Web pages tailored to
individual customers' preferences, including
recommendations and notifications, 1-Click®️ technology,
secure payment systems, browsing, searching and the ability to
view selected interior pages of over 250,000 books with our
"Look Inside the Book" feature. Our community of
online users creates feature-rich content, including product
reviews and online lists, such as wish lists, wedding registries
and baby registries of desired products and services that others
can reference for gift-giving purposes and Listmania lists with
accompanying commentary regarding favorite products.
3
Table of Contents
Marketing and Promotion
Our marketing strategy is designed to strengthen
and broaden the Amazon.com brand name, increase customer traffic
to our Web sites, encourage customers to shop in many product
categories, promote repeat purchases and develop incremental
product and service revenue opportunities. First and foremost,
our best marketing efforts are focused on improving the customer
experience, which drives word-of-mouth promotion and repeat
customer visits. We also deliver personalized Web pages and
services and employ a variety of media, business development
activities and promotional methods to achieve these goals. We
benefit from public relations activities and from time to time
we employ various means of online and traditional advertising,
including e-mail, radio, television and print media and direct
marketing. We also participate in cooperative advertising
arrangements with certain of our vendors. We direct customers to
our Web sites through our Associates program, which enables
associated Web sites to make our products available to their
audiences with fulfillment performed by us. Currently, over
900,000 Web sites have enrolled in our Associates program. In
addition, we offer an everyday free shipping option at
for certain orders that exceed a specific
amount, and offer similar options for our
internationally-focused Web sites. Although marketing expenses
do not include our free and reduced shipping offers, we view
such offers as an effective marketing tool.
Customer Service
We believe that our ability to establish and
maintain long-term relationships with our customers and to
encourage repeat visits and purchases depends, in part, on the
strength of our customer service operations, and we continually
seek to improve the Amazon.com customer service experience.
Customers can use the "your-account" website features
to track order and shipment status, review estimated delivery
dates, cancel unshipped items, change delivery information and
payment options, combine orders, edit gift options and return
items. In addition to these and similar online self-service
features, users can contact customer service representatives
24 hours a day, seven days a week. We have automated
certain tools used by our customer service staff and have plans
for further enhancements. We currently have customer service
personnel working in six customer service centers located in
Tacoma, Washington; Grand Forks, North Dakota; Huntington, West
Virginia; Slough, the United Kingdom; Regensburg, Germany; and
Sapporo, Japan. In addition, we have customer-service cosourcing
arrangements with certain vendors in India, Northern Ireland and
the U.S.
Fulfillment
We currently lease and operate U.S. fulfillment
facilities in New Castle, Delaware; Coffeyville, Kansas;
Campbellsville and Lexington, Kentucky; Fernley, Nevada; and
Grand Forks, North Dakota. We also lease and operate three
European fulfillment centers that are located in Marston Gate,
the United Kingdom; Orleans, France; and Bad Hersfeld, Germany.
In Japan, Nippon Express, a leading courier company, provides
fulfillment services for orders from
under a cosourcing arrangement;
and in Canada, Assured Logistics, an affiliate of Canada Post,
provides outsourced fulfillment services for orders from
. On an aggregate basis, these fulfillment
centers (including the facilities that are leased by Nippon
Express and Assured Logistics) comprise approximately
4.2 million square feet of warehouse space. In addition, we
currently lease six off-site facilities totaling approximately
1.1 million square feet of space, which support the storage
and fulfillment functions of our U.S. fulfillment centers.
Our fulfillment centers facilitate our ability to deliver
merchandise to customers on a reliable and timely basis. In
addition, we fulfill certain orders through outsourced
fulfillment providers.
Seasonality
Our business is generally affected by both
seasonal fluctuations in Internet usage (which generally
declines during summer months) and traditional retail
seasonality. Traditional retail sales for most of our products
(including books, music, DVDs, videos, toys and electronics,
among others) usually increase significantly in the fourth
calendar quarter of each year. Of particular note is the fourth
quarter seasonal
4
Table of Contents
effect on our sales of toys (which are mainly
sold through our Merchants@ program relationship with
Toysrus.com) and electronics.
Technology
We have implemented numerous Web-site management,
search, customer interaction, recommendation,
transaction-processing and fulfillment services and systems
using a combination of our own proprietary technologies and
commercially available, licensed technologies. Our current
strategy is to focus our development efforts on creating and
enhancing the specialized, proprietary software that is unique
to our business and to license or acquire commercially-developed
technology for other applications where available and
appropriate.
We use a set of applications for accepting and
validating customer orders, placing and tracking orders with
suppliers, managing and assigning inventory to customer orders
and ensuring proper shipment of products to customers. Our
transaction-processing systems handle millions of items, a
number of different status inquiries, gift-wrapping requests and
multiple shipment methods. These systems allow the customer to
choose whether to receive single or several shipments based on
availability and to track the progress of each order. These
applications also manage the process of accepting, authorizing
and charging customer credit cards.
Competition
The retail environment for our products is
generally intensely competitive. Our current or potential
competitors include: (1) physical-world retailers, catalog
retailers, publishers, distributors and manufacturers of our
products, many of which possess significant brand awareness,
sales volume and customer bases, and some of which currently
sell, or may sell, products or services through the Internet,
mail order or direct marketing; (2) other online e-commerce
sites; (3) a number of indirect competitors, including Web
portals and Web search engines that are involved in online
commerce, either directly or in collaboration with other
retailers; and (4) companies that provide e-commerce
services, including Web-site developers and third-party
fulfillment and customer-service providers. We believe that the
principal competitive factors in our market segments include
selection, price, availability, convenience, information,
discovery, brand recognition, personalized services,
accessibility, customer service, reliability, speed of
fulfillment, ease of use and ability to adapt to changing
conditions. For services we offer to business and individual
sellers, additional competitive factors include the quality of
our services and tools and speed of performance for our
services. As the market segments in which we operate continue to
grow, other companies may also enter into business combinations
or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions.
Intellectual Property
We regard our trademarks, service marks,
copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets,
proprietary technologies and similar intellectual property as
critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright and
patent law, trade-secret protection and confidentiality and/or
license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and
others to protect our proprietary rights. We have registered a
number of domain names and been issued a number of trademarks,
service marks, patents and copyrights by U.S. and foreign
governmental authorities. We also have applied for the
registration of other trademarks, service marks, domain names
and copyrights in the U.S. and internationally, and we have
filed U.S. and international patent applications covering
certain of our proprietary technology. We have licensed in the
past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of
our proprietary rights, such as trademarks, patents,
technologies or copyrighted materials, to third parties.
Employees
We employed approximately 7,500 full-time and
part-time employees at December 31, 2002. However,
employment levels fluctuate due to seasonal factors affecting
our business. We also employ independent contractors and
temporary personnel on a seasonal basis. None of our employees is
5
Table of Contents
represented by a labor union and we consider our
employee relations to be good. Competition for qualified
personnel in our industry is intense, particularly for
software-development and other technical staff. We believe that
our future success will depend in part on our continued ability
to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel.
Available Information
Our investor relations website is
We make available on this website
under "Financial Documents and Annual Reports," free
of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and
amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable
after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
Additional Factors That May Affect Future
Results
The following risk factors and other information
included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered.
The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only
ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently
known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair
our business operations. If any of the following risks occur,
our business, financial condition, operating results and cash
flows could be materially adversely affected.
We have incurred significant losses since we
began doing business. As of December 31, 2002, we had an
accumulated deficit of $3.0 billion and our
stockholders' equity was a deficit of $1.4 billion. We
have incurred substantial operating losses since our inception,
and we may continue to incur such losses for the foreseeable
future.
As of December 31, 2002, we had total
long-term indebtedness under our 10% Senior Discount Notes due
2008 ("Senior Discount Notes"), convertible notes,
capitalized-lease obligations and other asset financings of
$2.3 billion. We make annual or semi-annual interest
payments on the indebtedness under our two tranches of
convertible notes, which are due in 2009 and 2010, respectively.
Beginning in November 2003, we will begin to make semi-annual
interest payments on the indebtedness under our Senior Discount
Notes. We may incur substantial additional debt in the future.
Our indebtedness could limit our ability to obtain necessary
additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures,
debt service requirements or other purposes in the future; plan
for, or react to, changes in technology and in our business and
competition; and react in the event of an economic downturn.
There is no guarantee that we will be able to
meet our debt service obligations. If we are unable to generate
sufficient cash flow or obtain funds for required payments, or
if we fail to comply with covenants in our indebtedness, we will
be in default.
The market segments in which we compete are
rapidly evolving and intensely competitive, and we have many
competitors in different industries, including both the retail
and e-commerce services industries.
Many of our current and potential competitors
have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater
brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing
and other resources than we have. They may be able to secure
merchandise from vendors on more favorable terms and may be able
to adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Competitors in both
the retail and e-commerce services industries also may be able
to devote more resources to technology development and marketing
than us.
Competition in the e-commerce channel may
intensify. Other companies in the retail and e-commerce service
industries may enter into business combinations or alliances
that strengthen their competitive
6
Table of Contents
positions. As various Internet market segments
obtain large, loyal customer bases, participants in those
segments may expand into the market segments in which we
operate. In addition, new and expanded Web technologies may
further intensify the competitive nature of online retail. The
nature of the Internet as an electronic marketplace facilitates
competitive entry and comparison shopping and renders it
inherently more competitive than conventional retailing formats.
This increased competition may reduce our sales, operating
profits, or both.
We may enter into commercial agreements,
strategic alliances and other business relationships with other
companies. We have entered into agreements to provide e-commerce
services to other businesses and we plan to enter into similar
agreements in the future. Under such agreements, we may perform
services such as: providing our technology services such as
search, browse and personalization; permitting other businesses
and individuals to offer products or services through our Web
sites; and powering third-party Web sites, either with or
without providing accompanying fulfillment services. These
arrangements are complex and initially require substantial
personnel and resource commitments by us, which may constrain
the number of such agreements we are able to enter into and may
affect our ability to deliver services under the relevant
agreements. If we fail to implement, maintain and develop
successfully the various components of such arrangements, which
may include fulfillment, customer service, inventory management,
tax collection, payment processing and licensing of third party
software, hardware and content, these initiatives may not be
viable. The amount of compensation we receive under certain of
these agreements is dependent on the volume of sales that the
other company makes. Therefore, if the other business's Web
site or product or services offering is not successful, we may
not receive all of the compensation we are otherwise due under
the agreement or may not be able to maintain the agreement.
Moreover, we may not be able to succeed in our plans to enter
into additional commercial relationships and strategic alliances
on favorable terms.
As our commercial agreements expire or otherwise
terminate, we may be unable to renew or replace these agreements
on comparable terms, or at all. In the past, we amended several
of our commercial agreements to reduce future cash proceeds to
be received by us, shorten the term of our commercial
agreements, or both. Some of our agreements involve high margin
services, such as marketing and promotional agreements, and as
such agreements expire they may be replaced, if at all, by
agreements involving lower margin services. In addition, several
past commercial agreements were with companies that experienced
business failures and were unable to meet their obligations to
us. We may in the future enter into further amendments of these
agreements or encounter other parties that have difficulty
meeting their contractual obligations to us, which could
adversely affect our operating results.
In addition, our present and future third-party
services agreements, other commercial agreements, joint
ventures, investments and business combinations create risks
such as:
7
Table of Contents
In the past, we have entered into commercial
agreements with other companies, including strategic alliances
where we perform certain e-commerce services, and in exchange
for our services we received cash, equity securities of these
companies, and/or additional benefits, such as Web site traffic.
The amount of compensation we receive under certain of these
agreements is dependent on the volume of sales made by the other
company. In some cases, we have also made separate investments
in the other company by making a cash payment in exchange for
equity securities of that company. We may in the future make
additional investments in companies with which we already have
commercial agreements or companies with which we enter into new
commercial agreements or similar arrangements. To the extent we
have received equity securities as compensation, fluctuations in
the value of such securities will affect our ultimate
realization of amounts we have received as compensation for
services.
In the past, we amended several of our commercial
agreements to reduce future cash proceeds to be received by us,
shorten the term of our commercial agreements, or both. We may
in the future enter into further amendments of our commercial
agreements. Although these amendments did not affect the amount
of unearned revenue previously recorded by us (if any), the
timing of revenue recognition of these recorded unearned amounts
has been changed to correspond with the terms of the amended
agreements. To the extent we believe any such amendments cause
or may cause the compensation to be received under an agreement
to no longer be fixed or determinable, we limit our revenue
recognition to amounts received, excluding any future amounts
not deemed fixed or determinable. As future amounts are
subsequently received, such amounts are incorporated into our
revenue recognition over the remaining term of the agreement.
Our investments in equity securities that are not
accounted for under the equity method are included in
"Marketable securities" and "Other equity
investments" on our balance sheets. We regularly review all
of our investments in public and private companies for
other-than-temporary declines in fair value. When we determine
that the decline in fair value of an investment below our
accounting basis is other-than-temporary, we reduce the carrying
value of the securities we hold and record a loss in the amount
of any such decline. In recent years, securities of companies in
the Internet and e-commerce industries have experienced
significant difficulties. We may conclude in future quarters
that the fair values of other of these investments have
experienced an other-than-temporary decline. As of
December 31, 2002, our recorded basis in equity securities
was $19 million, including $4 million classified as
"Marketable securities" and $15 million
classified as "Other equity investments," of which
less than $1 million was accounted for under the
equity-method.
We expect a disproportionate amount of our net
sales to be realized during the fourth quarter of our fiscal
year. If we do not stock popular products in sufficient amounts
and fail to meet customer demand, it could significantly affect
our revenue and our future growth. If we overstock products, we
may be required to take significant inventory markdowns or
write-offs, which could reduce gross profits. A failure to
optimize inventory in our fulfillment network will harm our
shipping margins by requiring us to make partial shipments from
one or more locations. We may experience a decline in our
shipping margins due to complimentary upgrades, split-shipments
and additional long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely
delivery, especially for the holiday season. If the other
businesses on whose behalf we perform inventory fulfillment
services deliver product to our fulfillment centers in excess of
forecasts, we may be unable to secure sufficient storage space
and may be unable to optimize our fulfillment centers. If too
many customers access our Web sites within a short period of
time due to increased holiday or other demand, we may experience
system interruptions that make our Web sites unavailable or
prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce
the volume of goods we sell and the attractiveness of our
products and services. In addition, we may be unable to
adequately staff our fulfillment centers during these peak
periods and third parties that provide fulfillment services to
our customers may be unable to meet the
8
Table of Contents
seasonal demand. Finally, we, along with our
customer service outsourcers, may be unable to adequately staff
customer service centers.
We generally have payment terms with our vendors
that extend beyond the amount of time necessary to collect
proceeds from our customers. As a result of holiday sales, at
December 31 of each year, our cash, cash equivalents and
marketable securities balances reach their highest level (other
than as a result of cash flows provided by investing and
financing activities). This operating cycle results in a
corresponding increase in accounts payable. Our accounts payable
balance will decline during the first three months following
year-end, which will result in a decline in the amount of cash,
cash equivalents and marketable securities on hand.
Due to our limited operating history, our
evolving business model and the unpredictability of our
industry, we may not be able to accurately forecast our rate of
growth. We base our current and future expense levels and our
investment plans on estimates of future net sales and rate of
growth. Our expenses and investments are to a large extent
fixed. We may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough
if our net sales fall short of our expectations.
Our revenue and operating profit growth depends
on the continued growth of demand for the products offered by us
or our sellers, and our business is affected by general economic
and business conditions throughout the world. A softening of
demand, whether caused by changes in consumer preferences or a
weakening of the U.S. or global economies, may result in
decreased revenue or growth. Terrorist attacks and armed
hostilities create economic and consumer uncertainty that could
adversely affect our revenue or growth. Such attacks and
security concerns could create delays in and increase the cost
of product shipments to and from us, which may decrease demand.
Revenue growth may not be sustainable and our company-wide
percentage growth rate may decrease in the future.
Our net sales and operating results will also
fluctuate for many other reasons, including:
9
Table of Contents
Finally, both seasonal fluctuations in Internet
usage and traditional retail seasonality are likely to affect
our business. Internet usage generally slows during the summer
months, and sales in almost all of our product groups,
particularly toys and electronics, usually increase
significantly in the fourth calendar quarter of each year.
The results of operations of our
internationally-focused Web sites are exposed to foreign
exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the
applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency
into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation. As exchange rates
vary, net sales and other operating results, when translated,
may differ materially from expectations.
In addition, our 6.875% Convertible Subordinated
Notes due 2010 ("6.875% PEACS") are denominated in
Euros, not U.S. Dollars. When we periodically remeasure the
principal of the 6.875% PEACS based on fluctuations in the Euro/
U.S. Dollar exchange ratio, we will record non-cash gains or
losses in "Other gains (losses), net" on our
statements of operations. Furthermore, we have invested some of
the proceeds from the 6.875% PEACS in Euro-denominated cash
equivalents and marketable securities. Accordingly, if the U.S.
Dollar strengthens compared to the Euro, cash equivalents and
marketable securities balances, when translated, may be
materially less than expected and vice versa.
We have rapidly and significantly expanded our
operations and will endeavor to expand further to pursue growth
of our product and service offerings and customer base. Such
growth will continue to place a significant strain on our
management, operational and financial resources. We also need to
train and manage our employee base. Our current and planned
personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate
to support and effectively manage our future operations. We may
not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required
personnel, which may limit our growth.
In addition, we do not expect to benefit in our
newer market segments from the first-to-market advantage that we
experienced in the online book channel. Our gross profits in our
newer business activities may be lower than in our older
business activities. In addition, we may have limited or no
experience in new product and service activities and our
customers may not favorably receive our new businesses. To the
extent we pursue strategic alliances to facilitate new product
or service activities, the alliances may not be successful. If
any of this were to occur, it could damage our reputation and
negatively affect revenue growth.
We depend on the continued services and
performance of our senior management and other key personnel,
particularly Jeffrey P. Bezos, our President, Chief Executive
Officer and Chairman of the Board. We do not have "key
person" life insurance policies. The loss of any of our
executive officers or other key employees could harm our
business.
Customer access to our Web sites directly affects
the volume of goods we sell and the services we offer and thus
affects our net sales. We experience occasional system
interruptions that make our Web sites unavailable or prevent us
from efficiently fulfilling orders or providing services to
third parties, which may reduce our net sales and the
attractiveness of our products and services. To prevent system
10
Table of Contents
interruptions, we continually need to add
additional software and hardware and upgrade our systems and
network infrastructure to accommodate both increased traffic on
our Web sites and increased sales volume.
Our computer and communications systems and
operations could be damaged or interrupted by fire, flood, power
loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquakes, acts
of war or terrorism, acts of God, computer viruses, physical or
electronic break-ins and similar events or disruptions. Any of
these events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of
critical data, and could prevent us from accepting and
fulfilling customer orders. Should this occur, it would make our
product offerings less attractive to our customers and our
service offerings less attractive to third parties. While we do
have backup systems for certain aspects of our operations, our
systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery
planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. In
addition, we may have inadequate insurance coverage or insurance
limits to compensate us for losses from a major interruption. If
any of this were to occur, it could damage our reputation and be
expensive to remedy.
We plan, over time, to continue to expand our
reach in international market segments. We have relatively
little experience in purchasing, marketing and distributing
products or services for these market segments and may not
benefit from any first-to-market advantages. It is costly to
establish international facilities and operations, promote our
brand internationally and develop localized Web sites, stores
and other systems. We may not succeed in these efforts. Our net
sales from international market segments may not offset the
expense of establishing and maintaining the related operations
and, therefore, these operations may not be profitable on a
sustained basis.
Our international sales and related operations
are subject to a number of risks inherent in selling abroad,
including, but not limited to, risks with respect to:
As the international e-commerce channel continues
to grow, competition will likely intensify. Local companies may
have a substantial competitive advantage because of their
greater understanding of, and
11
Table of Contents
focus on, the local customer, as well as their
more established local brand name recognition. In addition,
governments in foreign jurisdictions may regulate e-commerce or
other online services in such areas as content, privacy, network
security, copyright, encryption, taxation or distribution. We
may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage
required personnel, which may limit our growth in international
market segments.
We are exposed to significant inventory risks as
a result of seasonality, new product launches, rapid changes in
product cycles and changes in consumer tastes with respect to
our products. In order to be successful, we must accurately
predict these trends and avoid overstocking or under-stocking
products. Demand for products, however, can change significantly
between the time inventory is ordered and the date of sale. In
addition, when we begin selling a new product, it is
particularly difficult to forecast product demand accurately. A
failure to optimize inventory within our fulfillment network
will harm our shipping margins by requiring us to make split
shipments from one or more locations, complimentary upgrades and
additional long-zone shipments necessary to ensure timely
delivery. As a result of our Merchants@ program relationships
with Toysrus.com, Babiesrus.com, Target and other companies,
these parties identify, buy, manage and bear the financial risk
of inventory obsolescence for their corresponding stores and
merchandise. As a result, if any of these parties fail to
forecast product demand or optimize inventory, we would receive
reduced service fees under the agreements and our business and
reputation could be harmed.
The acquisition of certain types of inventory, or
inventory from certain sources, may require significant
lead-time and prepayment, and such inventory may not be
returnable. We carry a broad selection and significant inventory
levels of certain products, such as consumer electronics, and we
may be unable to sell products in sufficient quantities or
during the relevant selling seasons.
Our ability to receive inbound inventory
efficiently or ship completed orders to customers may be
negatively affected by a number of factors, including dependence
on a limited number of shipping companies, inclement weather,
fire, flood, power loss, earthquakes, labor disputes, acts of
war or terrorism or acts of God.
Any one of the inventory risk factors set forth
above may adversely affect our operating results.
If we do not successfully operate our fulfillment
centers, it could significantly limit our ability to meet
customer demand. Because it is difficult to predict sales
volume, we may not manage our facilities in an optimal way,
which may result in excess or insufficient inventory,
warehousing, fulfillment and distribution capacity. In addition,
third parties either drop-ship or otherwise fulfill an
increasing portion of our customers' orders, and we are
increasingly reliant on the reliability, quality and future
procurement of their services. Finally, under some of our
commercial agreements, we maintain the inventory of other
companies in our fulfillment centers, thereby increasing the
complexity of tracking inventory in and operating our
fulfillment centers. Our failure to properly handle such
inventory or the inability or failure of these other companies
to accurately forecast product demand would result in unexpected
costs and other harm to our business and reputation.
We regard our trademarks, service marks,
copyrights, patents, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary
technology and similar intellectual property as critical to our
success, and we rely on trademark, copyright and patent law,
trade secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license
agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to
protect our proprietary rights. Effective trademark, service
mark,
12
Table of Contents
copyright, patent and trade secret protection may
not be available in every country in which our products and
services are made available online.
We also may not be able to acquire or maintain
appropriate domain names in all countries in which we do
business. Furthermore, regulations governing domain names may
not protect our trademarks and similar proprietary rights. We
may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain
names that are similar to, infringe upon or diminish the value
of our trademarks and other proprietary rights.
Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary
rights is inherently difficult, and we may not be able to
determine the existence or extent of any such unauthorized use.
The protection of our intellectual property may require the
expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources.
Moreover, we cannot be certain that the steps we take to protect
our intellectual property will adequately protect our rights or
that others will not independently develop or otherwise acquire
equivalent or superior technology or other intellectual property
rights.
Third parties that license our proprietary rights
may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary
rights or reputation. In addition, the steps we take to protect
our proprietary rights may not be adequate and third parties may
infringe or misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks, trade
dress, patents and similar proprietary rights. Other parties may
claim that we infringed their proprietary rights. We have been
subject to, and expect to continue to be subject to, claims and
legal proceedings regarding alleged infringement by us of the
patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of
third parties. Such claims, whether or not meritorious, may
result in the expenditure of significant financial and
managerial resources, injunctions against us or the imposition
of damages that we must pay. We may need to obtain licenses from
third parties who allege that we have infringed their rights,
but such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to us
or at all. In addition, we may not be able to obtain or utilize
on terms which are favorable to us, or at all, licenses or other
rights with respect to intellectual property we do not own in
providing e-commerce services to other businesses and
individuals under commercial agreements.
We have a relatively short operating history and,
as an e-commerce company, we have a rapidly evolving and
unpredictable business model. The trading price of our common
stock fluctuates significantly. Trading prices of our common
stock may fluctuate in response to a number of events and
factors, such as:
13
Table of Contents
Any of these events may cause our stock price to
rise or fall and may adversely affect our business and financing
opportunities.
Future volatility in our stock price could force
us to increase our cash compensation to employees or grant
larger stock awards than we have historically, which could hurt
our operating results or reduce the percentage ownership of our
existing stockholders, or both. In the first quarter of 2001, we
offered a limited non-compulsory exchange of employee stock
options. This option exchange offer resulted in variable
accounting treatment for certain of our stock options. Variable
accounting treatment will result in unpredictable stock-based
compensation expense dependent on fluctuations in quoted prices
for our common stock. In late 2002, we implemented a restricted
stock unit plan, which will be our primary vehicle for employee
stock-based compensation going forward. Restricted stock and
restricted stock units are measured at fair value on the date of
grant based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price
of the common stock, which will be recognized as compensation
expense ratably over the corresponding employee service term.
We are subject to general business regulations
and laws, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing
the Internet and e-commerce. Such existing and future laws and
regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other
online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation,
user privacy, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution,
electronic contracts, consumer protection, the provision of
online payment services, broadband residential Internet access
and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It
is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property
ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy
apply to the Internet and e-commerce. Unfavorable resolution of
these issues may harm our business. In addition, many
jurisdictions currently regulate "auctions" and
"auctioneers" and may regulate online auction
services. Jurisdictions may also regulate consumer-to-consumer
fixed price online markets, like zShops and certain aspects of
Amazon Marketplace. This could, in turn, diminish the demand for
our products and services and increase our cost of doing
business.
In accordance with current industry practice, we
do not collect sales taxes or other taxes with respect to
shipments of most of our goods into states other than Washington
and North Dakota. Under some of our commercial agreements, the
other company is the seller of record of the applicable
merchandise and we are obligated to collect sales tax in most
states in accordance with that company's instructions. We
may enter into additional strategic alliances requiring similar
tax collection obligations. We collect Value Added Tax, or VAT,
for products that are ordered on ,
and and delivered in
European Union member countries. We also collect Japanese
consumption tax for products that are ordered on
and delivered in Japan. In addition,
Canadian consumption taxes are collected on sales of products
that are ordered on and delivered in
Canada. Our fulfillment center and customer service center
networks, and any future expansion of those networks, along with
other aspects of our evolving business, may result in additional
sales and other tax obligations. One or more states or foreign
countries may seek to impose sales or other tax collection
obligations on out-of-jurisdiction companies which engage in
e-commerce. A successful assertion by one or more states or
foreign countries that we should collect sales or other taxes on
the sale of merchandise could result in substantial tax
liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability to compete with
traditional retailers and otherwise harm our business.
Currently, decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court
restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and
local sales and use taxes with respect to sales made over the
Internet. However, a number of states, as well as the
U.S. Congress, have been considering various initiatives
that could limit or supersede the
14
Table of Contents
Supreme Court's position regarding sales and
use taxes on Internet sales. If any of these initiatives
addressed the Supreme Court's constitutional concerns and
resulted in a reversal of its current position, we could be
required to collect sales and use taxes in states other than
Washington and North Dakota. The imposition by state and local
governments of various taxes upon Internet commerce could create
administrative burdens for us and could decrease our future
sales.
Various countries are currently evaluating their
VAT positions on e-commerce transactions. Recently, for example,
the European Union ("EU") enacted a directive
requiring that businesses in non-EU countries selling digital
products and services to EU resident consumers collect and remit
VAT in the country of the consumer's residence. This
directive will become effective on July 1, 2003, will
result in additional VAT collection obligations and
administrative burdens and may decrease our future sales to
customers in the EU. Future VAT legislation or changes to our
business model may have similar impacts.
Although we continue to increase our direct
purchasing from manufacturers, we still source a significant
amount of inventory from relatively few vendors. During 2002, we
purchased over 10% of all inventory purchases from a single
vendor, Ingram Book Group. No other vendors account for over
10%. We do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with
most of our vendors to guarantee the availability of
merchandise, particular payment terms, or the extension of
credit limits. If our current vendors were to stop selling
merchandise to us on acceptable terms, we may not be able to
acquire merchandise from other suppliers in a timely and
efficient manner and on acceptable terms.
Some of our products, such as toys, tools,
hardware, computers, cell phones, and kitchen and houseware
products, may expose us to product liability claims relating to
personal injury, death or property damage caused by such
products, and may require us to take actions such as product
recalls. Certain businesses and individuals also may sell
products that may indirectly increase our exposure to product
liability claims. Although we maintain liability insurance, we
cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for
liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to
be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all.
In addition, some of our vendor agreements with our suppliers do
not indemnify us from product liability.
A fundamental requirement for e-commerce is the
secure transmission of confidential information over public
networks. Although we have developed systems and processes that
are designed to protect consumer information and prevent
fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches,
failure to mitigate such fraud or breaches may adversely affect
our operating results.
The law relating to the liability of providers of
online payment services is currently unsettled. In addition, we
are aware that governmental agencies have investigated the
provision of online payment services and could require changes
in the way this business is conducted. We guarantee payments
made through Amazon Payments up to certain limits for both
buyers and sellers, and we may be unable to prevent users of
Amazon Payments from fraudulently receiving goods when payment
may not be made to a seller or fraudulently collecting payments
when goods may not be shipped to a buyer. Our liability risk
will increase if a larger fraction of our sellers use Amazon
Payments. Any costs we incur as a result of liability because of
our guarantee of payments made through Amazon Payments or
otherwise could harm our business. In addition, the
functionality of Amazon Payments depends on certain third-party
vendors delivering services. If these vendors are unable or
unwilling to provide services, Amazon Payments will not be
viable (and our businesses that use Amazon Payments may not be
viable).
15
Table of Contents
Technology in the e-commerce industry changes
rapidly. We may not be able to adapt quickly enough to changing
customer requirements and preferences and industry standards.
Competitors often introduce new products and services with new
technologies. These changes and the emergence of new industry
standards and practices could render our existing Web sites and
proprietary technology obsolete.
Consumer use of the Internet as a medium for
commerce is a recent phenomenon and is subject to a high level
of uncertainty. While the number of Internet users has been
rising, the Internet infrastructure may not expand fast enough
to meet the increased levels of demand. If use of the Internet
as a medium for commerce does not continue to grow or grows at a
slower rate than we anticipate, our sales would be lower than
expected and our business would be harmed.
We may be unable to prevent users of our
Merchants@ program, Merchant.com program, Amazon Marketplace,
Auctions and zShops services from selling unlawful goods, or
from selling goods in an unlawful manner. We may face civil or
criminal liability for unlawful and fraudulent activities by our
users under U.S. laws and/or the laws and regulations of
other countries. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in
preventing our users from providing content that is either
illegal or which violates the proprietary rights of others, it
may result in liability to us. Any costs we incur as a result of
liability relating to the sale of unlawful goods, the unlawful
sale of goods, the fraudulent receipt of goods or the fraudulent
collection of payments could harm our business. In running our
Merchants@ program, Merchant.com program, Amazon Marketplace,
Auctions and zShops services, we rely on sellers to make
accurate representations and provide reliable delivery, and on
buyers to pay the agreed purchase price. We do not take
responsibility for delivery of payment or goods and, while we
can suspend or terminate the accounts of users who fail to
fulfill their delivery obligations, we cannot require users to
make payments or deliver goods. We do not compensate users who
believe they have been defrauded by other users except through
our guarantee program. Under our guarantee program, fraudulent
activities by our users, such as the fraudulent receipt of goods
and the fraudulent collection of payments, may create liability
for us.
16
Table of Contents
Executive Officers and Directors
The following tables set forth certain
information regarding our Executive Officers and Directors as of
January 19, 2003:
Executive Officers
Jeffrey P. Bezos.
Mr. Bezos has been Chairman of
the Board of Amazon.com since founding it in 1994 and Chief
Executive Officer since May 1996. Mr. Bezos served as
President from founding until June 1999 and again from October
2000 to the present.
Richard L. Dalzell.
Mr. Dalzell has served as Senior
Vice President, Worldwide Architecture and Platform Software,
and Chief Information Officer since November 2001. From October
2000 until November 2001, Mr. Dalzell was Senior Vice
President and Chief Information Officer and prior to that, from
joining Amazon.com in August 1997 until October 2000, he was
Vice President and Chief Information Officer.
Mark S. Peek.
Mr. Peek has served as Vice
President and Chief Accounting Officer since July 2002. From
November 2000 to July 2002, he served as Vice President,
Financial Planning and Analysis, and from April 2000 to November
2000, he served as Vice President, Finance and Chief Accounting
Officer. Prior to joining Amazon.com, Mr. Peek was an audit
partner with Deloitte & Touche.
Diego Piacentini.
Mr. Piacentini has served as
Senior Vice President, Worldwide Retail and Marketing, since
November 2001. From joining Amazon.com in February 2000 until
November 2001, Mr. Piacentini was Senior Vice President and
General Manager, International. Prior to joining Amazon.com,
Mr. Piacentini was Vice President and General Manager,
Europe, of Apple Computer, Inc., with responsibility for Apple
Computer's operations in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
Thomas J. Szkutak.
Mr. Szkutak has served as Senior
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since November 2002.
Previously, Mr. Szkutak held a variety of positions at
General Electric Co., including Chief Financial Officer of GE
Lighting from September 2001 to September 2002, Finance Director
of GE Plastics Europe from March 1999 to September 2001, and
Executive Vice President -- Finance of GE Asset
Management (formerly known as GE Investments) from May 1997 to
March 1999.
Jeffrey A. Wilke.
Mr. Wilke has served as Senior
Vice President, Worldwide Operations and Customer Service, since
January 2002. From October 2000 until January 2002,
Mr. Wilke was Senior Vice President, Operations, and prior
to that he had been Vice President and General Manager,
Operations, since joining Amazon.com in September 1999.
Previously, Mr. Wilke held a variety of positions at
AlliedSignal, including Vice President and General Manager of
the Pharmaceutical Fine Chemicals unit
17
Table of Contents
from March 1999 to September 1999 and General
Manager of the Carbon Materials and Technologies unit from
August 1997 to February 1999.
L. Michelle Wilson.
Ms. Wilson has served as Senior
Vice President, Human Resources, General Counsel and Secretary
since March 2001. She served as Vice President, General Counsel
and Secretary from July 1999 until March 2001. Ms. Wilson
joined Amazon.com in March 1999 as Associate General Counsel,
Mergers and Acquisitions and Finance. Prior to joining
Amazon.com, she was a partner in the law firm of Perkins Coie
LLP.
Board of Directors
We do not own any real estate. Our principal
office facilities in the U.S. are located in several leased
facilities in Seattle, Washington under leases that expire at
various times through July 2010. Our corporate office facilities
(excluding customer service office space) in the U.S. comprise a
total of 517,000 square feet. Additionally, we have
333,000 square feet of office space that is subleased or is
vacant that we remain obligated under lease agreements that
expire at various times through April 2011.
Our U.S. warehousing and fulfillment
operations are housed in six fulfillment centers located in New
Castle, Delaware; Fernley, Nevada; Coffeyville, Kansas;
Lexington and Campbellsville, Kentucky; and Grand Forks, North
Dakota. These fulfillment centers comprise a total of
approximately 3.1 million square feet. Our fulfillment
center leases expire from 2004 through 2015. We also lease six
facilities located near our fulfillment centers, comprising
approximately 1.1 million square feet, which we use for
off-site storage and shipping. These offsite storage and
shipping facilities are under relatively short-term lease
agreements that expire at various times through May 2003;
following expiration, we intend to renew certain of these leases
or consolidate into new offsite facilities, or both.
Our U.S. customer service operations occupy
approximately 76,000 square feet of office space and are
located in Tacoma, Washington; Huntington, West Virginia; and
Grand Forks, North Dakota. The lease terms of these facilities
expire in January 2006, April 2010 and November 2008,
respectively.
Our data-center facilities have
120,000 combined square feet (including approximately
40,000 square feet of vacant space at one facility). These
facilities are under leases that expire from 2004 through 2009.
We lease additional properties outside the U.S.,
including approximately 135,000 square feet of corporate
office space (excluding customer service office space) in
Germany, France, Japan and the United Kingdom (which excludes
approximately 40,000 square feet of vacant office space in
Germany); approximately 845,000 combined square feet of
available fulfillment center space in Germany, France and the
United Kingdom (which excludes approximately 200,000 square
feet in our United Kingdom facility that is currently subleased
or marketed for sublease); and approximately
66,000 combined square feet of customer service space in
Germany, Japan and the United Kingdom. The fulfillment centers
in Germany,
18
Table of Contents
the United Kingdom and France are located in Bad
Hersfeld, Marston Gate and Orleans, respectively, and the lease
terms expire in December 2009, October 2025 and March 2009,
respectively.
In January 2001, we closed our fulfillment
centers in McDonough, Georgia and Seattle, Washington. Our lease
for the Seattle facility, which covers approximately
76,000 square feet (a portion of which is currently
subleased) will expire in April 2004. We recently negotiated a
termination agreement for our McDonough facility lease that
accelerated the termination date to December 2002 for a portion
of the building and to March 2003 for the remainder of the
building (contingent on our payment of the final termination
fee). At December 31, 2002, the lease for our McDonough
facility covered approximately 520,000 square feet.
We believe our properties are suitable and
adequate for our present and anticipated near term needs.
On April 12, 2001, we received a request
from the SEC staff for the voluntary production of documents and
information concerning, among other things, previously reported
sales of our common stock by our Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer, Jeffrey Bezos, on February 2 and 5, 2001. We are
cooperating with the SEC staff's continuing inquiry.
A number of purported class action complaints
were filed by holders of our equity and debt securities against
us, our directors and certain of our senior officers during
2001, in the United States District Court for the Western
District of Washington, alleging violations of the Securities
Act of 1933 (the "1933 Act") and/or the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (the "1934 Act"). On
October 5, 2001, plaintiffs in the 1934 Act cases filed a
consolidated amended complaint alleging that we, together with
certain of our officers and directors and certain third parties,
made false or misleading statements during the period from
October 29, 1998 through July 23, 2001 concerning our
business, financial condition and results, inventories, future
prospects and strategic alliance transactions. The 1933 Act
complaint alleges that the defendants made false or misleading
statements in connection with our February 2000 offering of the
6.875% PEACS. The complaints seek recissionary and/or
compensatory damages and injunctive relief against all
defendants. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing in these
complaints and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in these
matters.
On August 28, 2002, the Trustee for the
Creditors' Trust for Living.com instituted an adversary
proceeding against a subsidiary of the Company in the United
States Bankruptcy Court for the Western District of Texas. The
plaintiff alleges that Living.com's creditors are entitled
to a contractual recovery of approximately $58 million in
fees that Living.com had previously paid in 2000 primarily by
issuing Living.com stock to the Company. We dispute the
plaintiff's allegations and intend to vigorously defend
ourselves in this matter.
On October 29, 2002, Gary Gerlinger,
individually and on behalf of all other similarly situated
consumers in the United States who, during the period from
August 1, 2001 to the present, purchased books online from
either Amazon.com or Borders.com, instituted an action against
the Company and Borders in the United States District Court for
the Northern District of California. The Complaint alleges that
the agreement pursuant to which an affiliate of Amazon.com
operates Borders.com as a co-branded site violates federal
anti-trust laws, California statutory law and the common law of
unjust enrichment. The Complaint seeks injunctive relief,
damages, including treble damages or statutory damages where
applicable, attorneys fees, costs and disbursements,
disgorgement of all sums obtained by allegedly wrongful acts,
interest and declaratory relief. We dispute the plaintiff's
allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend
ourselves in this matter.
Depending on the amount and the timing, an
unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could
materially affect our business, future results of operations,
financial position or cash flows in a particular period.
From time to time, we are subject to other legal
proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business,
including claims of alleged infringement of trademarks,
copyrights, patents and other intellectual
19
Table of Contents
property rights. We currently are not aware of
any such legal proceedings or claims that we believe will have,
individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on
our business, financial condition or operating results.
No matters were submitted for a vote of our
stockholders during the fourth quarter of 2002.
PART II
Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq National
Market under the symbol "AMZN." The following table
sets forth the high and low sale prices for the common stock for
the periods indicated, as reported by the Nasdaq National Market.
As of January 27, 2003, there were
4,229 stockholders of record of our common stock, although
there is a much larger number of beneficial owners.
We have never declared or paid cash dividends on
our common stock. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends
in the foreseeable future. In addition, we are restricted from
paying cash dividends under our Senior Discount Notes. See
Item 7 of Part II, "Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations -- Liquidity and Capital Resources."
None.
The following selected consolidated financial
data should be read in conjunction with the consolidated
financial statements and the notes thereto in Item 8 of
Part II, "Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data," and the information contained herein in Item 7
of Part II, "Management's Discussion and Analysis
20
Table of Contents
of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations." Historical results are not necessarily
indicative of future results.
Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements other
than statements of historical fact, including statements
regarding industry prospects and future results of operations or
financial position, made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
are forward-looking. We use words such as anticipates, believes,
expects, future, intends and similar expressions to identify
forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect
management's current expectations and are inherently
uncertain. Our actual results may differ significantly from
management's expectations. The following discussion
includes forward-looking statements regarding expectations of
future pro forma profitability, net sales, cash flows from
operations and free cash flows, all of which are inherently
difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially for
a variety of reasons, including, among others, the rate of
growth of the economy in general, the Internet and online
commerce, customer spending patterns, the amount that we invest
in new business opportunities and the timing of those
investments, the mix of products sold to customers, the mix of
net sales derived from products as compared with services, risks
of inventory management, the degree to which we enter into,
maintain and develop relationships with other businesses,
fluctuations in the value of securities and non-cash payments we
receive in connection with such transactions, foreign exchange
risks, seasonality, international growth and expansion and risks
of fulfillment throughput and productivity. These risks and
uncertainties, as well as other risks and uncertainties that
could cause our actual results to differ significantly from
management's expectations, are described in greater detail
in Item 1 of Part I,
21
Table of Contents
"Business -- Additional Factors
That May Affect Future Results," which, along with the
following discussion, describes some, but not all, of the
factors that could cause actual results to differ significantly
from management's expectations.
Results of Operations
Critical Accounting Judgments
The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States requires estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and
expenses and related disclosures of contingent assets and
liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and
accompanying notes. The SEC has defined a company's
critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important
to the portrayal of the company's financial condition and
results of operations, and which require the company to make its
most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of
the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently
uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the
critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We
also have other key accounting policies, which involve the use
of estimates, judgments and assumptions that are significant to
understanding our results. For additional information see
Item 8 of Part II, "Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data -- Note 1 --
Description of Business and Accounting Policies." Although
we believe that our estimates, assumptions and judgments are
reasonable, they are based upon information presently available.
Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates
under different assumptions, judgments or conditions.
Significant Accounting Policies
Inventories, consisting of products available for
sale, are valued at the lower of cost or market value, which
requires us to make judgments, based on currently-available
information, about the likely method of disposition (whether
through sales to individual customers, returns to product
vendors or liquidations), and expected recoverable values of
each disposition category. Based on this evaluation, which is
applied consistently from period to period, we record a
valuation allowance to adjust the carrying amount of our
inventories to lower of cost or market value.
We generally recognize revenue from product sales
or services rendered when the following four revenue recognition
criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists,
delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the
selling price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is
reasonably assured.
We evaluate the criteria outlined in Emerging
Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue No. 99-19,
"Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal Versus Net as an
Agent," in determining whether it is appropriate to record
the gross amount of product sales and related costs or the net
amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are the primary
obligor in a transaction, are subject to inventory risk, have
latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, or have
several but not all of these indicators, revenue is recorded
gross. If we are not the primary obligor and amounts earned are
determined using a fixed percentage, a fixed-payment schedule,
or a combination of the two, we generally record the net amounts
as commissions earned.
Product sales, net of promotional discounts,
rebates and return allowances, are recorded when the products
are shipped and title passes to customers. Retail items sold to
customers are made pursuant to a sales contract that provides
for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon our delivery to
the carrier (commonly referred to as "F.O.B. Shipping
Point"). Return allowances (which reduce product revenue by
our best estimate of expected product returns) are estimated
using historical experience.
22
Table of Contents
We periodically provide incentive offers to our
customers to encourage purchases. Such offers include percentage
discounts off current purchases ("current discount
offers"), offers for future discounts subject to a minimum
current purchase ("inducement offers") and other
similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted by our
customers, are treated as a reduction to the purchase price of
the related transaction and are presented as a net amount in
"Net sales." Inducement offers, when accepted by our
customers, are treated as a reduction to purchase price based on
estimated redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using
our historical experience for similar inducement offers.
Commissions received through our Amazon
Marketplace and Merchants@ programs and amounts earned through
our Merchant.com program are recorded as net amounts since we
are acting as an agent. Amounts earned are recognized as net
sales when the item is sold by the third-party seller and our
collectibility is reasonably assured. We record an allowance for
estimated refunds on such commissions using historical
experience.
We earn revenues from services primarily by
entering into business-to-business commercial agreements,
including providing our technology services such as search,
browse and personalization; permitting other businesses and
individuals to offer products or services through our Web sites;
and powering third-party Web sites, either with or without
providing accompanying fulfillment services. These commercial
agreements also include miscellaneous marketing and promotional
agreements. As compensation for the services we provide under
these agreements, we generally receive cash. In the past, we
have accepted as compensation under these arrangements equity
securities, or a combination of equity securities and cash.
Generally, the fair value of the equity consideration received
is measured when the agreement is executed, but to the extent
that the equity consideration is subject to forfeiture or
vesting provisions and no significant performance commitment
exists upon execution of the agreement, the fair value of the
equity consideration and corresponding revenue is determined as
of the date that the forfeiture provision lapses or as the
vesting provision lapses. Subsequent to initial measurement of
fair value, appreciation or decline in the fair value of such
securities will affect our ultimate realization of equity
securities received as compensation; however, any such change
does not affect the amount of revenue to be recognized over the
term of the agreement. We generally recognize revenue from these
marketing and promotional services (including revenues
associated with non-refundable advance payments) on a
straight-line basis over the period during which we perform
services under these agreements, commencing at the launch date
of the service. If we receive non-refundable advance payments,
such amounts are deferred for revenue recognition purposes until
service commences.
Included in Services segment revenues are
equity-based service revenues of $13 million,
$27 million and $79 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively.
We have in the past, and may in the future, amend
our agreements with certain of the companies with which we have
commercial agreements to modify future cash proceeds to be
received by us, modify the service term of our commercial
agreements, or both. Although these amendments generally do not
affect the amount of unearned revenue previously recorded by us
(if any), the timing of future revenue recognition changes to
correspond with the terms of amended agreements. These
amendments or future amendments will affect the timing and
amount of revenues recognized in connection with these
commercial agreements. To the extent we believe any such
amendments cause or may cause the compensation to be received
under an agreement to no longer be fixed or determinable, we
limit our revenue recognition to amounts received, excluding any
future amounts not deemed fixed or determinable. As future
amounts are subsequently received, such amounts are incorporated
into our revenue recognition over the remaining term of the
agreement.
For equity securities of public companies
received as compensation under commercial agreements, we
generally determine fair value based on the quoted market price
at the time we enter into the underlying commercial agreement
and adjust such market price appropriately if significant
restrictions on marketability exist. Because an observable
market price does not exist for equity securities of private
companies, our estimates of fair value of such securities are
more subjective than for the securities of
23
Table of Contents
public companies. For significant transactions
involving equity securities in private companies, we obtain and
consider independent, third-party valuations where appropriate.
Such valuations use a variety of methodologies to estimate fair
value, including comparing the security with securities of
publicly traded companies in similar lines of business, applying
price multiples to estimated future operating results for the
private company, and utilizing estimated discounted cash flows
for that company. These valuations also reduce the otherwise
fair value by a factor that is intended to account for
restrictions on control and marketability where appropriate.
Using these valuations and other information available to us,
such as our knowledge of the industry and the company itself, we
determine the estimated fair value of the securities received.
Effective July 1, 2001, we adopted certain
provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
("SFAS") No. 141, "Business
Combinations," and effective January 1, 2002, we
adopted the full provisions of SFAS No. 141 and SFAS
No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets."
SFAS No. 141 requires business combinations initiated after
June 30, 2001 to be accounted for using the purchase method
of accounting and broadens the criteria for recording intangible
assets apart from goodwill. We evaluated our goodwill and
intangibles acquired prior to June 30, 2001 using the
criteria of SFAS No. 141, which resulted in
$25 million of other intangibles (comprised entirely of
assembled workforce intangibles) being subsumed into goodwill at
January 1, 2002. SFAS No. 142 requires that purchased
goodwill and certain indefinite-lived intangibles no longer be
amortized, but instead be tested for impairment at least
annually. We evaluated our intangible assets and determined that
all such assets have determinable lives.
SFAS No. 142 prescribes a two-phase process
for impairment testing of goodwill. The first phase screens for
impairment, while the second phase (if necessary) measures the
impairment. We completed our first phase impairment analysis and
found no instances of impairment of our recorded goodwill;
accordingly, the second testing phase was not necessary during
2002. No subsequent indicators of impairment have been noted.
Restructuring-related liabilities include
estimates for, among other things, anticipated disposition of
lease obligations. Key variables in determining such estimates
include anticipated commencement timing of sublease rentals,
estimates of sublease rental payment amounts and tenant
improvement costs and estimates for brokerage and other related
costs. We periodically evaluate and, if necessary, adjust our
estimates based on currently-available information.
Results of Operations
Net sales include the selling price of consumer
products sold by us, less promotional discounts, rebates and
sales returns; outbound shipping charges billed to our
customers; commissions and other amounts earned from sales of
new and used products on Amazon Marketplace; amounts earned
(fixed fees, sales commissions, per-unit activity fees, or some
combination thereof) for sales of retail products through our
Merchants@ program, such as Toysrus.com and Target stores at
the selling price of consumer products
sold by us through our Syndicated Stores program, such as
amounts earned (fixed fees, sales
commissions, per-unit activity fees, or some combination
thereof) in connection with our Merchant.com program, such as
amounts earned from third parties who
utilize our technology services such as search, browse and
personalization; and amounts earned for miscellaneous marketing
and promotional agreements.
Net sales were $3.93 billion,
$3.12 billion and $2.76 billion for 2002, 2001 and
2000, respectively, representing increases of 26% and 13% for
2002 and 2001, respectively. The increases in 2002 net sales
were primarily attributable to our International segment and our
BMVD segment, which increased $508 million and
$185 million in 2002, respectively. The increases in 2001
net sales were primarily
24
Table of Contents
attributable to our International segment and our
ETK segment, which increased $280 million and
$63 million, respectively. During 2002, revenues improved
$47 million in comparison to 2001 due to changes in foreign
exchange rates (specifically the weakening of the
U.S. Dollar in comparison to the Euro and the British
Pound).
Net sales for our BMVD segment were
$1.87 billion, $1.69 billion and $1.70 billion
for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, representing an increase
of 11% for 2002 in comparison with a decline of 1% for 2001.
This segment includes retail sales from
and of books, music and DVD/ video
products and magazine subscription commissions. This segment
also includes commissions from Amazon Marketplace sales of these
products, new, used or collectible, amounts earned from sales of
these products by other businesses through our Merchants@
program and product revenues from stores offering these products
through our Syndicated Stores program. The improvement in growth
rates for our BMVD segment in 2002 in comparison with 2001
reflects increased unit sales resulting from our continuing
efforts to reduce prices for customers, including increases in
customer discounts on books and the introduction of everyday
free shipping at for certain orders. Also
contributing to the 2002 increase in growth rates for BMVD are
increases in unit sales through Amazon Marketplace.
Net sales for our ETK segment were
$645 million, $547 million and $484 million for
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, representing increases of 18%
and 13% for 2002 and 2001, respectively. This segment includes
retail sales of electronics, home
improvement and home and garden products, as well as our
mail-order catalog sales. This segment also includes commissions
from sales of these products, new, used or collectible, through
Amazon Marketplace and amounts earned from sales of these
products by other businesses through our Merchants@ program,
such as with Office Depot, and will include revenues from stores
offering these products, if any, through our Syndicated Stores
program. The improvement in growth rates for our ETK segment in
2002 in comparison with 2001 reflects increased unit sales
resulting from our continuing efforts to reduce prices for
customers, including increases in customer discounts through
price changes and rebate programs and the introduction of
everyday free shipping at for certain
orders. Also contributing to the 2002 increase in growth rates
for ETK are increases in unit sales through Amazon Marketplace.
Net sales for our International segment were
$1.17 billion, $661 million and $381 million for
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, representing increases of 77%
and 74% for 2002 and 2001, respectively. We anticipate that as
the revenue base of our International segment increases, the
percentage growth rates will likely decline over time. During
2002, revenues improved $47 million in comparison to 2001
due to changes in foreign exchange rates (specifically the
weakening of the U.S. Dollar in comparison to the Euro and
the British Pound). This segment includes all retail sales of
the following internationally-focused Web sites:
, , and
. These international sites share a
common Amazon.com experience, but are localized in terms of
language, products, customer service and fulfillment. To the
extent available on these sites, this segment includes
commissions and other amounts earned from sales of products
through Amazon Marketplace and revenues from stores offering
products through our Syndicated Stores program, such as
and ,
and amounts earned from sales of products by other businesses
through our Merchants@ program. Our International segment
includes export sales from , ,
and (including export
sales from these sites to customers in the U.S. and Canada), but
excludes export sales from and
. The increase in net sales from our
International segment results from, in each of the four
internationally-focused Web sites, an increase in unit sales (in
part due to the introduction of Amazon Marketplace on
, and
), and our continuing efforts to reduce
prices to customers through increases in customer discounts and
free and reduced-rate shipping offers. The future growth of our
International segment may fluctuate significantly with changes
in foreign exchange rates. See Item 1 of Part I,
"Business -- Additional Factors That May Affect
Future Results -- We Have Foreign Exchange Risk."
Net sales for our Services segment were
$246 million, $225 million and $198 million for
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, representing increases of 9%
and 13%, respectively. This segment consists of
25
Table of Contents
commissions, fees and other amounts earned from
our services business, including our Merchant.com program (such
as ), and to the extent full product
categories are not also offered by us through our online retail
stores, our Merchants@ program, such as our apparel store, the
Toysrus.com and Babiesrus.com stores, and portions of the Target
store at , as well as our commercial
agreement with America Online, Inc. This segment also includes
Auctions, zShops, Amazon Payments and miscellaneous marketing
and promotional agreements. The increase in net sales from our
Services segment results from amounts earned through our
Merchants@ program and our Merchant.com program, offset by the
expiration of certain of our marketing and promotional
agreements. The amount of compensation we receive under certain
of these services agreements is dependent on the volume of sales
that the other company makes. See Item 1 of Part I
"Business -- Additional Factors That May Affect
Future Results -- Our Business Could Suffer If We Are
Unsuccessful in Making, Integrating and Maintaining Commercial
Agreements, Strategic Alliances and Other Business
Relationships."
Shipping revenue (which consists of outbound
shipping charges to our customers) across all operating segments
was $365 million, $357 million and $339 million
for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Shipping revenue does not
include any commissions or other amounts earned from Amazon
Marketplace. In January 2002, we introduced a new shipping
option at , offering everyday free shipping
for certain orders that exceed a specified amount, and we
lowered this threshold several times throughout the year. We
offer similar shipping options for our internationally-focused
Web sites and may offer other free or reduced-fee shipping
options over time. These shipping offers reduce shipping revenue
as a percentage of sales and cause our gross margins on retail
sales to decline. We view these shipping offers as an effective
marketing tool.
First quarter of 2003 net sales are expected to
be between $1.025 billion and $1.075 billion, or grow
between 21% and 27%. For the full year 2003, net sales are
expected to grow over 15%. However, any such projections are
subject to substantial uncertainty. See Item 1 of Part 1,
"Business -- Additional Factors That May Affect
Future Results."
Gross profit is net sales less the cost of sales,
which consists of the purchase price of consumer products sold
by us, inbound and outbound shipping charges to us, packaging
supplies and certain costs associated with our service revenues.
Costs associated with our Services segment revenues and
classified as cost of services generally include
fulfillment-related costs to ship products on behalf of
third-party sellers, costs to provide customer service, credit
card fees and other related costs.
Effective January 1, 2002, we prospectively
changed our inventory costing method to the first-in first-out
("FIFO") method of accounting. This change resulted in
a cumulative increase in product inventory of $0.8 million,
with a corresponding amount recorded to "Cumulative effect
of change in accounting principle" on the statements of
operations in 2002. We evaluated the effect of the change on
each quarter during 2001 and determined such effect to be less
than $1.2 million individually and in the aggregate. We
determined this change to be preferable under accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States since, among
other reasons, it facilitates our record keeping process,
significantly improves our ability to provide cost-efficient
fulfillment services to other companies as part of our services
offering and results in increased consistency with others in our
industry.
Gross profit was $993 million,
$799 million and $656 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively, representing increases of 24% and 22% for 2002 and
2001, respectively. Gross margin was 25%, 26% and 24% for 2002,
2001 and 2000, respectively. Increases in gross profit in 2002
primarily correspond with increases in units sold (including
increased product sales through Amazon Marketplace),
improvements in transportation and inventory management and
improvements in product sourcing, offset by price reductions on
books and electronics, the expiration of certain high-margin
marketing and promotional agreements, and our free and
reduced-rate shipping offers. Increases in gross profit in 2001
primarily correspond with improvements in inventory management
and product sourcing, and to a lesser extent, increased product
sales through Amazon Marketplace. Our overall gross margins
fluctuate based on several factors, including
26
Table of Contents
our mix of sales during the period (including
sales through Amazon Marketplace), competitive pricing decisions
and general efforts to reduce prices for our customers over
time, as well as the extent to which we provide free and
reduced-rate shipping offers.
Gross profit for our BMVD segment was
$528 million, $453 million and $417 million for
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, representing increases of 16%
and 9% for 2002 and 2001, respectively. Gross margin was 28%,
27% and 25% for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The slight
improvement in gross margin corresponds with the increase in
higher margin sales through Amazon Marketplace, improvements in
transportation costs and inventory management, and continued
improvements in product sourcing, offset by price reductions and
our everyday free shipping offer.
Gross profit for our ETK segment was
$90 million, $78 million and $45 million for
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, representing increases of 15%
and 76% for 2002 and 2001, respectively. Gross margin was 14%
for 2002 and 2001 and 9% for 2000. In 2002, improvements in
product sourcing, inventory management and transportation
management, along with lower transportation costs, were offset
by price reductions and our everyday free shipping offer. In
2001, improvement in gross margin primarily reflects
improvements in product sourcing and inventory management.
During 2002, sales of products through Amazon
Marketplace increased significantly in comparison to the prior
year. If product sales through Amazon Marketplace continue to
increase, we anticipate improvement in gross margin, offset to
the extent we offer additional or broader price reductions, free
shipping offers and other promotions.
Gross profit for our International segment was
$249 million, $141 million and $77 million for
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, representing increases of 77%
and 82% for 2002 and 2001, respectively. Gross margin was 21%
for 2002 and 2001, and 20% for 2000. The increase in gross
profit in 2002 reflects increases in units sold by each of our
four internationally-focused Web sites included in this segment
(in part due to the introduction of Amazon Marketplace on
, and
), offset by continuing efforts to reduce
prices for our customers. During 2002, gross profit improved
$10 million in comparison to 2001 due to changes in foreign
exchange rates (specifically the weakening of the
U.S. Dollar in comparison to the Euro and the British
Pound).The increase in gross profit in 2001 reflects increases
in units sold by our and
sites, as well as the launch of our
and sites during
the second half of 2000.
Gross profit for our Services segment was
$126 million for 2002 and 2001 and $116 million for
2000, representing flat gross profit in 2002 and an increase of
9% for 2001. Costs associated with our service revenues
generally include fulfillment-related costs to ship products on
behalf of other businesses, including costs to provide customer
service, credit card fees and other related costs. Gross margin
was 51%, 56% and 59% for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.
Gross profit from our Services segment largely corresponds with
revenues from our commercial agreements, which includes our
Merchant.com program and, to the extent product categories are
not also offered by us through our online retail stores, the
Merchants@ program, as well as amounts earned through
miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements. The decline
in gross margin from our Services segment relates to service
costs classified in cost of sales resulting from the shift in
the mix of our commercial relationships towards agreements that
incorporate a broader range of services, including fulfillment.
Also contributing to the decline in Services gross margin in
2002 was the expiration of certain high-margin marketing and
promotional agreements. We expect Services segment margins will
decline again in 2003 since high-margin marketing arrangements
are expected to represent a lower percentage of our overall
revenue mix for this segment. See Item 1 of Part 1
"Business -- Additional Factors That May Affect
Future Results -- Our Business Could Suffer If We Are
Unsuccessful in Making, Integrating and Maintaining Commercial
Agreements, Strategic Alliances and Other Business
Relationships."
Shipping loss across all operating segments was
$40 million, $19 million and $1 million for 2002,
2001 and 2000, respectively. The loss from shipping primarily
reflects the free and reduced-rate shipping offers, offset in
part by cost reductions from efficiencies in our outbound
shipping. We continue to measure our shipping results relative
to their effect on our overall financial results, with the
viewpoint that shipping
27
Table of Contents
promotions are an effective marketing tool. In
January 2002, we introduced a new shipping option at
, offering everyday free shipping for
certain orders that exceed specified purchase thresholds. We
offer a similar shipping option for our internationally-focused
Web sites and may offer other free or reduced-fee shipping
options over time. We expect to continue offering our customers
free shipping options which reduce shipping revenue as a
percentage of sales and negatively affect gross margins.
Fulfillment costs represent those costs incurred
in operating and staffing our fulfillment and customer service
centers, including costs attributable to receiving, inspecting
and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging and preparing
customer orders for shipment; credit card fees and bad debt
costs; and responding to inquiries from customers. Fulfillment
costs also include amounts paid to third-party co-sourcers that
assist us in fulfillment and customer service operations.
Certain Services segment fulfillment-related costs incurred on
behalf of other businesses are classified as cost of sales
rather than fulfillment. Fulfillment costs were
$392 million, $374 million and $415 million for
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively, representing 10%, 12% and 15%
of net sales, respectively. The improvement in fulfillment costs
as a percentage of net sales results from improvements in
productivity and accuracy, the increase in units fulfilled
helping to leverage the fixed-cost portion of our fulfillment
network, a decline in customer service contacts per order
resulting from improvements in our operations and enhancements
to our customer self-service features available on our Web
sites. These improvements were offset, in part, by increases in
employee wages and benefits and credit card interchange fees
associated with Amazon Marketplace, which represent a higher
percent of commissions earned relative to amounts earned from
retail sales of our inventory. Additionally, the comparisons
between 2001 and 2000 (and to a lesser extent the comparisons
between 2002 and 2001) were affected by the closures in 2001 of
our fulfillment centers in McDonough, Georgia and Seattle,
Washington, and customer service centers in The Hague,
Netherlands and Seattle, Washington.
Marketing expenses consist of advertising,
promotional and public relations expenditures, and payroll and
related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling
activities. Marketing expenses, net of co-operative marketing
reimbursements, were $125 million, $138 million and
$180 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively,
representing 3%, 4% and 7% of net sales, respectively. To the
extent co-operative marketing reimbursements decline in future
periods, we may incur additional expenses to continue certain
promotions or elect to reduce or discontinue them. Declines in
expense for marketing-related activities reflect management
efforts to cut ineffective marketing programs, as well as
reduced rates charged to us for some online marketing
activities. These decreases are partially offset by increased
investment in marketing channels considered most effective in
driving incremental net sales, such as targeted online
advertising through various Web portals and our Associates
program. In January 2002, we introduced a new shipping option at
, offering everyday free shipping for
certain orders that exceed a specified amount. We offer similar
shipping options for our internationally-focused Web sites.
Although marketing expenses do not include our free and reduced
shipping offers, we view such offers as an effective marketing
tool.
Technology and content expenses consist
principally of payroll and related expenses for development,
editorial, systems and telecommunications operations personnel;
systems and telecommunications infrastructure; and costs of
acquired content, including freelance reviews. Technology and
content expenses were $216 million, $241 million and
$269 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively,
representing 5%, 8% and 10% of net sales, respectively. The
decline in absolute dollars spent for each comparative period
primarily reflects our migration to a technology platform that
utilizes a less-costly technology infrastructure, as well as
improved expense management and general price reductions in most
expense categories. We expect to continue to invest in
technology and improvements to our Web sites, which may
28
Table of Contents
include, but are not limited to, hiring
additional employees, offering additional Web site features and
product categories to our customers and implementing additional
commercial relationships, as well as potentially continuing our
international expansion.
General and administrative expenses consist of
payroll and related expenses for executive, finance and
administrative personnel, human resources, professional fees and
other general corporate expenses. General and administrative
expenses were $79 million, $90 million and
$109 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively,
representing 2%, 3% and 4% of net sales, respectively. The
decline in 2002 in general and administrative costs is primarily
attributable to a decline in facility and depreciation costs
resulting from our 2001 operational restructuring plan that
consolidated our corporate office locations, and through
continued efforts to improve efficiency. The decline in 2001 in
general and administrative costs is attributable to reductions
in most administrative expense categories, including
employee-related, facility and depreciation costs, supplies and
other miscellaneous charges, as well as decreased costs as a
result of our 2001 operational restructuring.
Stock-based compensation was $69 million,
$5 million and $25 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively. Stock-based compensation includes stock-based
charges resulting from variable accounting treatment of certain
stock options and restricted stock issued to certain key
employees, as well as amounts associated with our
newly-implemented restricted stock unit program. Stock-based
compensation also includes, to a lesser extent, a portion of
acquisition-related consideration conditioned on the continued
tenure of certain key employees of acquired businesses. Under
our restricted stock unit program, which commenced in the fourth
quarter of 2002, we award restricted stock units as our primary
vehicle for employee equity compensation. Restricted stock units
are measured at fair value on the date of grant based on the
number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common
stock. Such value is recognized as an expense ratably over the
corresponding employee service period. To the extent restricted
stock units are forfeited prior to vesting, the corresponding
previously recognized expense is reversed as an offset to
"Stock-based compensation." Stock-based compensation
associated with our restricted stock unit program was
$4 million in 2002.
The number of shares of common stock subject to
outstanding vested and unvested employee stock awards (including
restricted stock units) was approximately 45 million and
66 million, or 12% and 18% of our outstanding common stock,
at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
During the first quarter of 2001, we offered a
limited non-compulsory exchange of employee stock options, which
resulted in variable accounting treatment for approximately
5 million stock options at December 31, 2002,
including approximately 4 million options granted under the
exchange offer that have exercise prices of $13.375 and expire
in the third quarter of 2003. Variable accounting treatment
results in unpredictable and potentially significant charges or
credits recorded to "Stock-based compensation,"
dependent on fluctuations in quoted prices for our common stock.
We have quantified the hypothetical effect on "Stock-based
compensation" associated with various quoted prices of our
common stock, which we are unable to forecast accurately, using
a sensitivity analysis for our outstanding stock options subject
to variable accounting at December 31, 2002. We have
provided this information to give additional insight into the
volatility we will experience in our future results of
operations to the extent that the quoted price for our common
stock is above $13.375. This sensitivity analysis is not a
prediction of future performance of the quoted prices of our
common stock.
Using the following hypothetical market prices of
our common stock above $13.375 (including the actual expense
associated with options exercised), our hypothetical cumulative
compensation expense at
29
Table of Contents
December 31, 2002 resulting from variable
accounting treatment would have been as follows (in thousands,
except percentages and per share amounts):
Actual variable-accounting related compensation
could differ significantly from the above illustration in
instances where options are exercised during a period at prices
that differ from the closing stock price for the reporting
period. As of December 31, 2002, the Company's common
stock closed at $18.89, representing an increase of 41% over
$13.375. Cumulative compensation expense associated with
variable accounting treatment was $60 million, of which
$40 million is associated with options exercised and
therefore no longer subject to future variability.
If at the end of any fiscal quarter the quoted
price of our common stock is lower than the quoted price at the
end of the previous fiscal quarter, or to the extent
previously-recorded amounts relate to unvested portions of
options that were cancelled, compensation expense associated
with variable accounting will be recalculated using the
cumulative expense method and may result in a net benefit to our
results of operations.
Amortization of goodwill and other intangibles
was $5 million, $181 million and $322 million for
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The decline in amortization
of goodwill and intangibles in 2002 primarily results from our
adoption of SFAS No. 141, which resulted in
$25 million of intangible assets, comprised of assembled
workforce intangibles, being subsumed into goodwill, and our
adoption of SFAS No. 142, which requires that goodwill no
longer be amortized. The decline in amortization of goodwill and
intangibles in 2001 results from an impairment loss of
$184 million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2000
associated with certain of our 1999 business acquisitions. This
impairment loss reduced our recorded basis in goodwill and other
intangibles and had the effect of reducing amortization expense
during 2001.
Restructuring-related and other expenses were
$42 million, $182 million and $200 million for
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. In the first quarter of 2001,
we announced and began implementation of our operational
restructuring plan to reduce operating costs, streamline our
organizational structure, consolidate certain of our fulfillment
and customer service operations and migrate a large portion of
our technology infrastructure to a new operating platform. This
initiative involved the reduction of employee staff by 1,327
positions throughout the Company in managerial, professional,
clerical, technical and fulfillment roles; consolidation of our
Seattle, Washington corporate office locations; closure of our
McDonough, Georgia fulfillment center; seasonal operation of our
Seattle, Washington fulfillment center; closure of our customer
service centers in Seattle, Washington and The Hague,
Netherlands; and migration of a large portion of our technology
infrastructure to a new operating platform, which entails
ongoing lease obligations for technology infrastructure no
longer being utilized. Actual employee termination benefits paid
were $12 million. The restructuring is complete; however we
may adjust our restructuring-related estimates in the future, if
necessary.
During 2002, we revised our estimates of ongoing
net lease obligations for our facilities in Seattle, Washington
and McDonough, Georgia, primarily due to weakness in these real
estate markets; we reached a termination agreement with the
landlord of our leased fulfillment center facility in McDonough,
Georgia,
30
Table of Contents
which requires payments totaling $12 million
(of which $4 million was paid in December 2002, with the
balance payable in the first quarter of 2003); and we
permanently closed our fulfillment center in Seattle, Washington.
Restructuring-related charges were as follows (in
thousands):
At December 31, 2002, the accrued liability
associated with restructuring-related and other charges was
$57 million and consisted of the following (in thousands):
Cash payments resulting from our operational
restructuring were $45 million and $49 million for
2002 and 2001, respectively. We estimate, based on currently
available information, the remaining net cash outflows
associated with our restructuring-related commitments will be as
follows (in thousands):
31
Table of Contents
Restructuring-related lease obligations are as
follows (in thousands):
Restructuring-related and other expenses in 2000
primarily relate to impairments of goodwill and other
intangibles recorded in connection with certain of our business
acquisitions.
Our results from operations were income of
$64 million and losses of $412 million and
$864 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The
improvement in operating results in comparison with the prior
year was attributable to an increase in gross profit; a
reduction in certain operating costs including marketing,
technology and content and general and administrative; a decline
in restructuring-related charges; as well as a decline in
amortization of goodwill and other intangibles primarily due to
the adoption of SFAS No. 142; offset by stock-based
compensation charges associated primarily with certain of our
employee stock options under variable accounting treatment. We
are unable to forecast accurately the effect on our future
reported results associated with variable accounting treatment
on certain of our employee stock options.
Net interest expense was $119 million,
$110 million and $90 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively. Interest income was $24 million,
$29 million and $41 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively, and interest expense was $143 million,
$139 million and $131 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively. Interest income declined in 2002 in comparison
with 2001 primarily as a result of declining interest rates,
offset in part by increases in the average balance of cash, cash
equivalents and marketable securities. Interest income declined
in 2001 in comparison with 2000 due primarily to decreases in
the average balance of cash, cash equivalents and marketable
securities. Interest expense is primarily related to our 6.875%
PEACS, 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2009
("4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes"), and our
Senior Discount Notes. The increase in interest expense for 2001
in comparison with 2000 is primarily associated with our
February 2000 issuance of the 6.875% PEACS. At December 31,
2002, our total long-term indebtedness was $2.28 billion.
Beginning in November 2003, we will begin to make semi-annual
interest payments on the indebtedness under our Senior Discount
Notes.
Other income (expense), net consisted of the
following (in thousands):
32
Table of Contents
Other gains (losses), net consisted of the
following (in thousands):
Equity in losses of equity-method investees
represents our share of losses of companies in which we have
investments that give us the ability to exercise significant
influence, but not control, over an investee. This influence is
generally defined as an ownership interest of the voting stock
of the investee of between 20% and 50%, although other factors,
such as representation on our investee's Board of Directors
and the effect of commercial arrangements, are considered in
determining whether the equity method of accounting is
appropriate. Equity-method losses were $4 million,
$30 million and $305 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively. Our basis in equity-method investments was less
than $1 million, and $10 million at December 31,
2002 and 2001, respectively. As equity-method losses are only
recorded until the underlying investments are reduced to zero,
we expect, absent additional investments, equity-method losses
in future periods to be insignificant.
We have provided for current and deferred
U.S. federal, state and foreign income taxes for the
current and all prior periods presented. Current and deferred
income taxes were provided with respect to jurisdictions where
certain of our subsidiaries produce taxable income. As of
December 31, 2002, we have recorded a net deferred tax
asset of $3 million, which consists primarily of certain
state jurisdiction net operating loss carryforwards. We have
provided a valuation allowance for the remainder of our deferred
tax asset, consisting primarily of net operating loss
carryforwards, because of uncertainty regarding its realization.
The increase in the valuation allowance on the deferred tax
asset was $196 million and $492 million for 2002 and
2001, respectively.
At December 31, 2002, we had net operating
loss carryforwards of approximately $2.5 billion related to
U.S. federal, state and foreign jurisdictions. Utilization
of net operating losses, which begin to expire at various times
starting in 2010, may be subject to certain limitations under
Sections 382 and 1502 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended, and other limitations under state and foreign tax
laws. Additionally, approximately $180 million of capital
loss carryforwards begins to expire in 2005. Approximately
$1.2 billion of our net operating loss carryforwards
relates to tax deductible stock-based compensation in excess of
amounts recognized for financial reporting purposes. To the
extent that net operating loss carryforwards, if realized,
relate to stock-based compensation, the resulting tax benefits
will be recorded to stockholders' equity, rather than to
results of operations.
Net loss was $149 million, $567 million
and $1.41 billion for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.
Year over year improvements during 2002 and 2001 result from a
variety of factors, including growth in net
33
Table of Contents
sales, overall declines in operating costs
(offset by stock-based compensation charges associated primarily
with certain of our employee stock options under variable
accounting treatment), lower impairment charges associated with
our investment portfolio and declines in losses from
equity-method investments, offset by losses arising from the
remeasurement of our 6.875% PEACS's principal from Euros to
U.S. Dollars.
Although we reported fourth quarter of 2002 net
income of $3 million, we believe that this positive net
income result should not be viewed as a material positive event
and is not predictive of future results for a variety of
reasons. For example, excluding the $5 million
restructuring-related gain associated with our McDonough,
Georgia, fulfillment center lease-termination agreement, we
would have reported a net loss in the fourth quarter of 2002.
Alternatively, excluding the $31 million stock-based
compensation charge associated with variable accounting
treatment on certain of our employee stock options that resulted
from an increase in our stock price during the fourth quarter,
or excluding the $38 million foreign exchange loss on the
remeasurement of our PEACS from Euros to U.S. Dollars, we
would have reported more net income in the fourth quarter of
2002. We are unable to forecast the effect on our future
reported results of certain items, including the stock-based
compensation charges or credits associated with variable
accounting treatment on certain of our employee stock options
that will result from fluctuations in our stock price, and the
gain or loss associated with our 6.875% PEACS that will result
from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
During 2002 and 2001, activity in unearned
revenue was as follows (in thousands):
During 2001, we recorded previously unearned
revenue associated with the termination of our commercial
agreement with Kozmo.com, which was included in "Other
gains (losses), net." Since services had not yet been
performed under the contract, no amounts associated with the
Kozmo.com commercial agreement were previously recognized in
"Net sales" during any period.
We provide certain pro forma information
regarding our results from operations, which excludes the
following line items on our consolidated statements of
operations:
34
Table of Contents
We also provide certain pro forma information
regarding our net loss, which excludes, in addition to the line
items described above, the following line items on our
consolidated statements of operations:
This pro forma information is not presented in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States. Pro forma results are provided as a complement to
results provided in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States. Our management uses
such pro forma measures internally to evaluate our performance,
prepare and measure our operating plan and manage our
operations. Our management believes pro forma measures provide
useful information to investors regarding our financial
condition and results of operations because pro forma results
exclude certain items that are unpredictable and outside of our
control, not settled in cash, or both, such as the effects of
foreign exchange rates on "Other gains (losses), net,"
and the effect of the changes in the price of the Company's
common stock on "Stock-based compensation." Other
amounts, such as charges associated with our 2001 operational
restructuring, are excluded to provide our management and
investors information relating to ongoing operations. All pro
forma results are derived from information presented in our
financial statements. For information about our financial
results, as reported in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States, see Item 8 of
Part II, "Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data."
35
Table of Contents
Full year and corresponding quarterly pro forma
results of operations, and certain cash flow information for
2002, 2001 and 2000, were as follows (in thousands):
36
Table of Contents
The following is a reconciliation of our pro
forma results for 2002, 2001 and 2000. Quarterly reconciliations
are consistent with full-year presentation.
37
Table of Contents
First quarter of 2003 pro forma net profit is
expected to be between $5 million and $20 million, or
between $0.01 per share and $0.05 per share. Pro forma net
profit for full year 2003 is expected to be over
$115 million, or over $0.27 per share. However, any such
projections are subject to substantial uncertainty. See
Item 1 of Part I, "Business --
Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results."
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash,
cash equivalents and marketable securities. Our cash and cash
equivalents balance was $738 million, $540 million and
$822 million, and our marketable securities balance was
$563 million, $456 million and $278 million at
December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.
Combined cash, cash equivalents and marketable
securities were $1.30 billion, $997 million and
$1.10 billion at December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively. Equity securities of $4 million are included
in "Marketable securities" at December 31, 2002,
the value of which may fluctuate significantly. Equity
securities of $13 million and $36 million were
included in "Marketable securities" at
December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively.
We have pledged a portion of our marketable
securities as collateral for standby letters of credit that
guarantee certain of our contractual obligations, a majority of
which relates to property leases; the swap agreement that hedges
the foreign-exchange rate risk on a portion of our 6.875% PEACS;
and some of our real estate lease agreements. The amount of
marketable securities we are required to pledge pursuant to the
swap agreement fluctuates with the fair market value of the swap
obligation. The change in the total amount of collateral pledged
under these agreements was as follows (in thousands):
As of December 31, 2002, our principal
commitments consisted of long-term indebtedness totaling
$2.28 billion related primarily to our 6.875% PEACS, 4.75%
Convertible Subordinated Notes and Senior Discount Notes; trade
payables of $618 million; and accrued expenses and other
liabilities of $315 million, which includes current
restructuring-related obligations of $25 million.
Additionally, we are scheduled under certain of our long-term
debt obligations to make periodic interest payments through 2010
in the aggregate of $947 million, and are obligated under
operating leases and commitments for advertising and promotional
arrangements in the aggregate of $355 million and
$8 million, respectively.
The following are our contractual commitments
associated with our operational restructuring, indebtedness,
lease obligations and marketing agreements (in thousands):
38
Table of Contents
Restructuring-related lease obligations are as
follows (in thousands):
Long-term capital lease obligations are as
follows (in thousands):
Net cash provided by or used in operating
activities consists of net loss offset by certain adjustments
not affecting current-period cash flows, and the effect of
changes in working capital. Adjustments to net loss to determine
cash flows from operations include depreciation and
amortization, equity in losses of investees and other items not
affecting cash flows in the current period. Net cash provided by
operating activities during 2002 was $174 million,
resulting from our net loss of $149 million that was offset
by adjustments not affecting 2002 cash flows of
$284 million, and changes in working capital of
$40 million. Adjustments not affecting 2002 cash flows were
primarily associated with losses resulting from the
remeasurement of our 6.875% PEACS from Euros to
U.S. Dollars, depreciation of fixed assets, stock-based
compensation and non-cash interest expense. Net cash used by
operating activities during 2001 was $120 million,
resulting from our net loss of $567 million, offset by
adjustments not affecting 2001 cash flows of $412 million
and changes in working capital of $36 million. Net cash
used by operating activities during 2000 was $130 million,
resulting from our net loss of $1.41 billion, offset by
adjustments not affecting 2000 cash flows of $1.10 billion
and changes in working capital of $178 million.
Cash used in investing activities during 2002 was
$122 million, consisting of net purchases of marketable
securities of $83 million and purchases of fixed assets of
$39 million. Cash used in investing activities during 2001
was $253 million, consisting of net purchases of marketable
securities of
39
Table of Contents
$197 million, purchases of fixed assets of
$50 million and cash paid for acquired assets of
$6 million. Cash provided by investing activities during
2000 was $164 million, consisting of net sales of
marketable securities of $361 million offset by cash paid
for investments of $63 million and purchases of fixed
assets of $135 million.
Net cash provided by financing activities during
2002 was $107 million, consisting primarily of proceeds
from exercises of stock options, offset by repayments of
long-term capital lease obligations. Net cash provided by
financing activities during 2001 was $107 million,
consisting primarily of proceeds from the issuance of common
stock to America Online as well as exercises of stock options,
offset by repayments of long-term capital lease obligations. Net
cash provided by financing activities during 2000 was $693
million consisting primarily of net proceeds from issuance of
690 million Euros of 6.875% PEACS. We expect cash proceeds
from exercises of employee stock options to decline over time as
we plan to issue restricted stock units as our primary vehicle
for employee stock-based awards.
We believe that current cash, cash equivalents
and marketable securities balances will be sufficient to meet
our anticipated operating cash needs for at least the next
12 months. In addition, we expect to have positive free
cash flow (operating cash flow less purchases of fixed assets)
for fiscal year 2003. However, any projections of future cash
needs and cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. See
Item 1 of Part I, "Business --
Additional Factors that May Affect Future Results." We
continually evaluate opportunities to sell additional equity or
debt securities, obtain credit facilities from lenders, or
restructure our long-term debt for strategic reasons or to
further strengthen our financial position. The sale of
additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in
additional dilution to our stockholders. In addition, we will,
from time to time, consider the acquisition of or investment in
complementary businesses, products, services and technologies,
and the repurchase and retirement of debt, which might affect
our liquidity requirements or cause us to issue additional
equity or debt securities. There can be no assurance that
financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to
us, if at all.
We are exposed to market risk for the effect of
interest rate changes, foreign currency fluctuations and changes
in the market values of our investments.
Information relating to quantitative and
qualitative disclosure about market risk is set forth below and
in Item 7 of Part II, "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations -- Liquidity and Capital Resources."
Interest
Rate Risk
Our exposure to market risk for changes in
interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and
our long-term debt. All of our cash equivalent and marketable
fixed income securities are designated as available-for-sale
and, accordingly, are presented at fair value on our balance
sheets. We generally invest our excess cash in A-rated or higher
short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and money
market mutual funds. Fixed rate securities may have their fair
market value adversely affected due to a rise in interest rates,
and we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell
securities that have declined in market value due to changes in
interest rates.
40
Table of Contents
The following table provides information about
our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities,
including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the
related weighted average interest rates at December 31,
2002. Amounts were as follows (in thousands, except percentages):
The following table provides information about
our cash equivalent and marketable fixed income securities,
including principal cash flows by expected maturity and the
related weighted average interest rates at December 31,
2001. Amounts are as follows (in thousands, except percentages):
41
Table of Contents
At December 31, 2002, we have long-term debt
of $2.28 billion primarily associated with our 6.875%
PEACS, 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes and Senior Discount
Notes, which are due in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our
payment commitments associated with these debt instruments are
fixed during the corresponding terms and are comprised of
interest payments, principal payments, or a combination thereof.
The market value of our long-term debt will fluctuate with
movements of interest rates, increasing in periods of declining
rates of interest and declining in periods of increasing rates
of interest. Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value of
the 6.875% PEACS was $531 million and $310 million at
December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, the fair value of
the 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes was $925 million
and $625 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001,
respectively, and the fair value of the outstanding Senior
Discount Notes was $263 million and $194 million as of
December 31, 2002 and December 31, 2001, respectively.
During 2002, net sales from five of our
internationally-focused Web sites (,
, , and
) accounted for 30% of our consolidated
revenues. Net sales generated from these Web sites, as well as
most of the related expenses incurred, are denominated in the
functional currencies of the corresponding Web sites. The
functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or
support , , ,
and is the same as the
local currency of the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Japan and
Canada, respectively. Results of operations from our foreign
subsidiaries and our subsidiaries that operate our
internationally-focused Web sites are exposed to foreign
exchange fluctuations as the financial results of these
subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars at average
rates prevailing during the year upon consolidation. As exchange
rates vary, net sales and other operating results, when
translated, may differ materially from expectations. The effect
of foreign exchange fluctuations for 2002 on our
internationally-focused Web sites increased net sales by
$47 million and increased results from operations by
$4 million.
At December 31, 2002, we were also exposed
to foreign exchange risk related to Euro-denominated cash
equivalents and marketable securities ("Euro
Investments"), as well as our 6.875% PEACS. As of
December 31, 2002 the Euro Investments, classified as
available-for-sale, had a balance of 60 million Euros ($63
million, based on the exchange rate as of December 31,
2002). Our 6.875% PEACS have an outstanding principal balance of
690 million Euros ($725 million, based on the exchange
rate as of December 31, 2002), of which 75 million
Euros principal is hedged. Based on the outstanding Euro
Investment balance at December 31, 2002, an assumed 5%, 10%
and 20% strengthening of the U.S. Dollar in relation to the
Euro would result in a corresponding decline in the total fair
value of such investments of approximately $3 million, $6
million and $13 million, respectively. Based on the
outstanding (unhedged) 6.875% PEACS' principal balance of
615 million Euros at December 31, 2002, an assumed 5%,
10% and 20% weakening of the U.S. Dollar in relation to the
Euro would result in corresponding currency losses of
approximately $32 million, $65 million and
$129 million, respectively, recorded to "Other gains
(losses), net."
We hedge the foreign exchange risk on our 6.875%
PEACS' principal of 75 million Euros and a portion of
the interest payments using a cross-currency swap agreement.
Under the swap agreement, we
42
Table of Contents
agreed to pay at inception and receive upon
maturity 75 million Euros in exchange for receiving at
inception and paying at maturity $67 million. In addition,
we agreed to receive in February of each year 27 million
Euros corresponding with interest payments on 390 million
Euros of the 6.875% PEACS and, simultaneously, to pay
$32 million. This agreement is cancelable, in whole or in
part, at our option at no cost on or after February 20,
2003 if our common stock price (converted into Euros) is greater
than or equal to 84.883 Euros, the minimum conversion price
of the 6.875% PEACS. We account for the swap agreement as a cash
flow hedge of the risk of exchange rate fluctuations on the debt
principal and interest. Gains and losses on the swap agreement
are initially recorded in "Accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss)" on our balance sheets and recognized in
"Other gains (losses), net" on our statements of
operations upon the recognition of the corresponding currency
losses and gains on the remeasurement of the 6.875% PEACS.
As of December 31, 2002, our recorded basis
in equity securities was $19 million, including
$4 million classified as "Marketable securities"
and $15 million classified as "Other equity
investments." We invest in the stock and/or warrants of
both private and public companies, including companies with
which we have formed commercial relationships, primarily for
strategic purposes. At December 31, 2002, we held
investments in publicly-traded and privately held companies with
a recorded basis of $11 million and $8 million,
respectively. We regularly review the carrying value of our
investments and identify and record losses when events and
circumstances indicate that such declines in the fair value of
such assets below our accounting basis are other-than-temporary.
During 2002, we recorded impairment losses totaling
$8 million to write-down several of our equity securities
to fair value. The fair values of our investments are subject to
significant fluctuations due to volatility of the stock market
and changes in general economic conditions. Based on the fair
value of the publicly-traded equity securities we held at
December 31, 2002 of $42 million (recorded basis of
$11 million), an assumed 15%, 30% and 50% adverse change to
market prices of these securities would result in a
corresponding decline in total fair value of approximately
$6 million, $13 million and $21 million,
respectively.
43
Table of Contents
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
44
Table of Contents
REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS
The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Amazon.com, Inc.
We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of Amazon.com, Inc. as of December 31, 2002
and 2001, and the related consolidated statements of operations,
stockholders' equity (deficit) and cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 2002. Our
audits also included the financial statement schedule listed at
Item 15(a)(2). These financial statements and schedule are
the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and schedule based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the
consolidated financial position of Amazon.com, Inc. at
December 31, 2002 and 2001, and the consolidated results of
its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2002, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule,
when considered in relation to the basic financial statements
taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the
information set forth therein.
As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated
financial statements, the Company adopted the full provisions of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141,
Business Combinations, and No. 142, Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets, effective January 1, 2002. The Company
also adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities, effective January 1, 2001. In addition, as
discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial
statements, effective January 1, 2002, the Company
prospectively changed its inventory costing method to the
first-in first-out method of accounting.
Seattle, Washington
January 17, 2003
45
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements.
46
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
OPERATIONS
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements.
47
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements.
48
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS'
EQUITY (DEFICIT)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements.
49
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
Note 1 -- Description of
Business and Accounting Policies
Description
of Business
Amazon.com, Inc., a Fortune 500 company,
commenced operations on the World Wide Web in July 1995.
The Company seeks to offer Earth's Biggest Selection and to
be Earth's most customer-centric company, where customers
can find and discover anything they may want to buy online. The
Company and its sellers list new, used and collectible items in
categories such as apparel and accessories, electronics,
computers, kitchen and housewares, books, music, DVDs, videos,
cameras and photo items, office products, toys, baby items and
baby registry, software, computer and video games, cell phones
and service, tools and hardware, travel services, magazine
subscriptions and outdoor living items. Through Amazon
Marketplace, the Merchants@ program, zShops and Auctions,
participating businesses or individuals can sell their products
to Amazon.com's customers.
The Company operates six global Web sites:
, , ,
, and .
The Company also owns and operates the Internet Movie Database
at ("IMDb"), which is a source of
information on movie and entertainment titles and cast and crew
members. IMDb offers IMDb Pro, a subscription service designed
for the entertainment industry.
Principles of
Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All
intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Use of
Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States requires estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and
expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and
liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and
accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited to,
inventory valuation, depreciable lives, sales returns,
receivables valuation, restructuring-related liabilities,
incentive discount offers, valuation of investments, taxes and
contingencies. Actual results could differ materially from those
estimates.
Business
Combinations
For business combinations that have been
accounted for under the purchase method of accounting, the
Company includes the results of operations of the acquired
business from the date of acquisition. Net assets of the
companies acquired are recorded at their fair value at the date
of acquisition. The excess of the purchase price over the fair
value of tangible and identifiable intangible net assets
acquired is included in goodwill on the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets.
Cash and Cash
Equivalents
The Company classifies all highly liquid
instruments with an original maturity of three months or less at
the time of purchase as cash equivalents.
Inventories
Inventories, consisting of products available for
sale, are valued at the lower of cost or market value. The
Company makes judgments, based on currently-available
information, about the likely method of disposition (whether
through sales to individual customers, returns to product
vendors or liquidations), and
50
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
expected recoverable values of each disposition
category. Based on this evaluation, which is applied
consistently from period to period, the Company records a
valuation allowance to adjust the carrying amount of its
inventories to lower of cost or market value.
Accounting
Changes
Inventories
Effective January 1, 2002, the Company
prospectively changed its inventory costing method to the
first-in first-out ("FIFO") method of accounting. This
change resulted in a cumulative increase in inventory of
$0.8 million, with a corresponding amount recorded to
"Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle"
on the consolidated statements of operations. The Company
evaluated the effect of the change on each quarter of 2001 and
determined such effect to be less than $1.2 million
individually and in the aggregate. The Company determined this
change to be preferable under accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States since, among other reasons, it
facilitates the Company's record keeping process,
significantly improves its ability to provide cost-efficient
fulfillment services to third-party companies as part of its
services offering and results in increased consistency with
others in the industry. The Company received a letter of
preferability for this change in inventory costing from its
independent auditors.
Goodwill and Other Intangibles
Effective July 1, 2001, the Company adopted
certain provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board
("FASB") Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
("SFAS") No. 141, "Business
Combinations," and effective January 1, 2002, the
Company adopted the full provisions of SFAS No. 141 and
SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets." SFAS No. 141 requires business combinations
initiated after June 30, 2001 to be accounted for using the
purchase method of accounting, and broadens the criteria for
recording intangible assets apart from goodwill. The Company
evaluated its goodwill and intangibles acquired prior to
June 30, 2001 using the criteria of SFAS No. 141,
which resulted in $25 million of other intangibles
(comprised entirely of assembled workforce intangibles) being
subsumed into goodwill at January 1, 2002. SFAS
No. 142 requires that purchased goodwill and certain
indefinite-lived intangibles no longer be amortized, but instead
be tested for impairment at least annually. The Company
evaluated its intangible assets and determined that all such
assets have determinable lives.
SFAS No. 142 prescribes a two-phase process
for impairment testing of goodwill. The first phase screens for
impairment; while the second phase (if necessary) measures the
impairment. The Company completed its first phase impairment
analysis during the first quarter of 2002 and found no instances
of impairment of its recorded goodwill; accordingly, the second
testing phase was not necessary. No subsequent indicators of
impairment have been noted by the Company.
In accordance with Accounting Principles Board
("APB") Opinion No. 20, "Accounting
Changes," the effect of these accounting changes is
reflected prospectively. Supplemental comparative disclosure, as
if the change had been retroactively applied, is as follows (in
thousands, except per share data):
51
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
Fixed
Assets
Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation, which includes the amortization of assets recorded
under capital leases. Fixed assets, including assets purchased
under capital leases, are depreciated on a straight-line basis
over the estimated useful lives of the assets (generally two to
ten years).
Included in fixed assets is the cost of
internal-use software, including software used to upgrade and
enhance the Company's Web sites. The Company expenses all
costs related to the development of internal-use software other
than those incurred during the application development stage.
Costs incurred during the application development stage are
capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life of the
software (generally two years).
Goodwill and
Other Intangibles
Other intangibles consist of the following (in
thousands):
At December 31, 2002 and 2001, goodwill was
$71 million and $45 million, respectively, stated net
of accumulated amortization of $740 million (of which
$168 million of accumulated amortization was reclassified
with the adoption of SFAS No. 141 on January 1, 2002)
and $572 million, respectively. During 2002, no goodwill or
other intangibles were acquired, impaired, or disposed, and
consistent with SFAS No. 142, no goodwill amortization was
recorded.
52
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
The net carrying amount of intangible assets at
December 31, 2002 is scheduled to be fully amortized by the
end of 2004. Amortization expense for the net carrying amount of
intangible assets at December 31, 2002 is estimated to be
$3 million in 2003, and less than $1 million in 2004.
Investments
Investments are accounted for using the equity
method of accounting if the investment gives the Company the
ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over
an investee. Significant influence is generally deemed to exist
if the Company has an ownership interest in the voting stock of
the investee of between 20% and 50%, although other factors,
such as representation on the investee's Board of Directors
and the effect of commercial arrangements, are considered in
determining whether the equity method of accounting is
appropriate. The Company records its equity in the income or
losses of these investees generally one month in arrears for
private companies and three months in arrears for public
companies. The Company records its investments in equity-method
investees on the consolidated balance sheets as "Other
equity investments" and its share of the investees'
earnings or losses as "Equity in losses of equity-method
investees, net" on the consolidated statements of
operations.
All other equity investments, which consist of
investments for which the Company does not have the ability to
exercise significant influence, are accounted for under the cost
method. Under the cost method of accounting, investments in
private companies are carried at cost and are adjusted only for
other-than-temporary declines in fair value, distributions of
earnings and additional investments. For public companies that
have readily determinable fair values, the Company classifies
its equity investments as available-for-sale and, accordingly,
records these investments at their fair values with unrealized
gains and losses included in "Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss)." Such investments are included
in "Marketable securities" on the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets if the Company does not have the
intent to hold the investment for over one year from the balance
sheet date. In cases where the Company has the intent to hold
such investments for over one year from the balance sheet date,
such investments are included in "Other equity
investments."
The Company also invests in certain marketable
debt securities, which consist primarily of high-quality short-
to intermediate-term fixed income securities that are classified
as available-for-sale securities. Such investments are included
in "Marketable securities" on the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets and are reported at fair value with
unrealized gains and losses included in "Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss)." The weighted average method
is used to determine the cost of Euro-denominated securities
sold and the specific identification method is used to determine
the cost of all other securities.
The initial cost of the Company's
investments is determined based on the fair value of the
investment at the time of its acquisition. The Company has
received equity securities as consideration for services to be
performed for the issuer under commercial agreements. In such
cases, the Company has estimated the fair value of the equity
securities received. For securities of public companies, the
Company generally determines fair value based on the quoted
market price at the time the Company enters into the underlying
agreement, and adjusts such market price appropriately if
significant restrictions on marketability exist. As an
observable market price does not exist for equity securities of
private companies, estimates of fair value of such securities
are more subjective than for securities of public companies. For
significant transactions involving equity securities in private
companies, the Company obtains and considers independent, third
party valuations where appropriate. Such valuations use a
variety of methodologies to estimate fair value, including
comparing the security with securities of publicly traded
companies in similar lines of business, applying price multiples
to estimated future operating results for the private company,
and estimating discounted cash flows for that company. These
valuations also reduce the fair value to account for
restrictions on control and marketability where appropriate.
Using these valuations and other
53
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
information available to the Company, such as the
Company's knowledge of the industry and knowledge of
specific information about the investee, the Company determines
the estimated fair value of the securities received. To the
extent that equity securities are subject to forfeiture or
vesting provisions and no significant performance commitment
exists upon signing of the agreements, the fair value of the
securities is determined as of the date of the respective
forfeiture or as vesting provisions lapse.
The Company periodically evaluates whether the
declines in fair value of its investments are
other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists of a review of
qualitative and quantitative factors by members of senior
management. For investments with publicly quoted market prices,
the Company generally considers a decline to be an
other-than-temporary impairment if the quoted market price is
less than its accounting basis for two consecutive quarters,
absent evidence to the contrary. The Company considers
additional factors to determine whether declines in fair value
are other-than-temporary, such as the investee's financial
condition, results of operations, operating trends and other
financial ratios. The evaluation also considers publicly
available information regarding the investee companies,
including reports from investment analysts and other publicly
available investee-specific news or general market conditions.
For investments in private companies with no quoted market
price, the Company considers similar qualitative and
quantitative factors and also considers the implied value from
any recent rounds of financing completed by the investee, as
well as market prices of comparable public companies. The
Company generally requires its private investees to deliver
monthly, quarterly and annual financial statements to assist in
reviewing relevant financial data and to assist in determining
whether such data may indicate other-than-temporary declines in
fair value below the Company's accounting basis.
Long-Lived
Assets
Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are
reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets
might not be recoverable. The Company does not perform a
periodic assessment of assets for impairment in the absence of
such information or indicators. Conditions that would
necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant
decline in the observable market value of an asset, a
significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is
used, or a significant adverse change that would indicate that
the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets is not
recoverable. For long-lived assets to be held and used, the
Company recognizes an impairment loss only if its carrying
amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted cash flows
and measures the impairment loss based on the difference between
the carrying amount and fair value. Long-lived assets held for
sale are reported at the lower of cost or fair value less costs
to sell.
Other
Assets
Other assets consist primarily of fees incurred
in connection with the issuance of the Company's debt.
These fees are amortized ratably as a component of interest
expense over the life of the underlying debt.
Unearned
Revenue
Unearned revenue is recorded when payments,
whether received in cash or equity securities, are received in
advance of the Company's performance in the underlying
agreement. Unearned revenue is amortized ratably over the period
in which services are provided.
In instances where the Company receives equity
securities as compensation for services to be provided under
commercial arrangements, the fair value of these securities,
less the net amount of cash paid for them, is then recorded as
unearned revenue. Pursuant to Emerging Issues Task Force Issue
No. 00-8, "Accounting by a Grantee for an Equity
Instrument to Be Received in Conjunction with Providing Goods or
Services," the Company does not adjust unearned revenue to
give effect to either increases or decreases
54
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
in value of the equity securities subsequent to
their initial measurement (to the extent that such securities
are not subject to vesting or forfeiture).
The Company recognizes deferred tax assets and
liabilities based on differences between the financial reporting
basis and tax basis of assets and liabilities using the enacted
tax rates and laws that are expected to be in effect when the
differences are expected to be recovered. The Company provides a
valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets to the
extent such assets are not expected to be realized.
The Company generally recognizes revenue from
product sales or services rendered when the following four
revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an
arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been
rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, and
collectibility is reasonably assured.
The Company evaluates the criteria outlined in
Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue
No. 99-19, "Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal
Versus Net as an Agent," in determining whether it is
appropriate to record the gross amount of product sales and
related costs or the net amount earned as commissions.
Generally, when the Company is the primary obligor in a
transaction, is subject to inventory risk, has latitude in
establishing prices and selecting suppliers, or has several but
not all of these indicators, revenue is recorded gross. If the
Company is not the primary obligor and amounts earned are
determined using a fixed percentage, a fixed-payment schedule,
or a combination of the two, the Company generally records the
net amounts as commissions earned.
Product sales, net of promotional discounts,
rebates and return allowances, are recorded when the products
are shipped and title passes to customers. Retail items sold to
customers are made pursuant to a sales contract that provides
for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon the
Company's delivery to the carrier (commonly referred to as
"F.O.B. Shipping Point"). Return allowances (which
reduce product revenue by management's best estimate of
expected product returns) are estimated using historical
experience.
The Company periodically provides incentive
offers to its customers to encourage purchases. Such offers
include percentage discounts off current purchases
("current discount offers"), offers for future
discounts subject to a minimum current purchase
("inducement offers") and other similar offers.
Current discount offers, when accepted by customers, are treated
as a reduction to the purchase price of the related transaction
and are presented as a net amount in "Net sales."
Inducement offers, when accepted by customers, are treated as a
reduction to purchase price based on estimated redemption rates.
Redemption rates are estimated using the Company's
historical experience for similar inducement offers.
Commissions received on sales of products through
Amazon Marketplace, as well as commissions earned through the
Company's Merchants@ program (see
"Note 15 -- Segment Information"), are
recorded as a net amount since the Company is acting as an agent
in such transactions. In addition, the Company recognizes
amounts earned through its Merchant program (see
"Note 15 -- Segment Information") as a
net amount. Amounts earned are recognized as net sales when the
item is sold by the third-party seller and collectibility is
reasonably assured. The Company records an allowance for refunds
on such commissions using historical experience.
The Company earns revenues from services
primarily by entering into commercial agreements, including
providing its technology services such as search, browse, and
personalization; permitting third parties to offer products or
services through its Web sites; and powering third-party Web
sites, either with our without providing accompanying
fulfillment services. These commercial agreements also include
55
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
miscellaneous marketing and promotional
agreements. As compensation for the services the Company
provides under these agreements, the Company receives cash,
equity securities, or a combination thereof. Generally, the fair
value of the equity consideration received is measured when the
agreement is executed, but to the extent that the equity
consideration is subject to forfeiture or vesting provisions and
no significant performance commitment exists upon execution of
the agreement, the fair value of the equity consideration and
corresponding revenue is determined as of the date that the
forfeiture provision lapses or as the vesting provision lapses.
Subsequent to initial measurement of fair value, appreciation or
decline in the fair value of such securities will affect the
Company's ultimate realization of equity securities
received as compensation; however, any such change does not
affect the amount of revenue to be recognized over the term of
the agreement. The Company generally recognizes revenue from
these marketing and promotional services (including revenue
associated with non-refundable advance payments) on a
straight-line basis over the period during which the Company
performs services under these agreements, commencing at the
launch date of the service. If the Company receives
non-refundable advance payments, such amounts are deferred for
revenue recognition purposes until service commences.
Included in Services segment revenues are
equity-based service revenues of $13 million,
$27 million and $79 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively.
The Company has in the past, and may in the
future, amend its agreements with certain of the companies with
which it has commercial agreements to modify future cash
proceeds to be received by the Company, modify the service term
of its commercial agreements, or both. Although these amendments
generally do not affect the amount of unearned revenue
previously recorded by the Company (if any), the timing of
future revenue recognition changes to correspond with the terms
of amended agreements. These amendments or future amendments
will affect the timing and amount of revenues recognized in
connection with these commercial agreements. To the extent the
Company believes any such amendments cause or may cause the
compensation to be received under an agreement to no longer be
fixed or determinable, the Company limits its revenue
recognition to amounts received, excluding any future amounts
not deemed fixed or determinable. As future amounts are
subsequently received, such amounts are incorporated into
revenue recognition over the remaining term of the agreement.
Outbound shipping charges to customers are
included in net sales and amounted to $365 million,
$357 million and $339 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively.
Cost of sales consists of the purchase price of
consumer products sold by the Company, inbound and outbound
shipping charges, packaging supplies and certain costs
associated with service revenues. Costs associated with service
revenues classified as cost of services generally include direct
and allocated indirect fulfillment-related costs to ship
products on behalf of third-party sellers, costs to provide
customer service, credit card fees and other related costs.
Outbound shipping charges and the cost of
tangible supplies used to package products for shipment to
customers totaled $404 million, $376 million, and
$340 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.
Fulfillment costs represent those costs incurred
in operating and staffing the Company's fulfillment and
customer service centers, including costs attributable to:
receiving, inspecting and warehousing inventories; picking,
packaging and preparing customers' orders for shipment;
credit card fees and bad debt costs; and responding to inquiries
from customers. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid to
third-party co-sourcers that assist the Company in fulfillment
and customer service operations. Certain Services
56
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
segment fulfillment-related costs incurred on
behalf of other businesses are classified as cost of sales
rather than fulfillment.
Marketing expenses consist of advertising,
promotional, and public relations expenditures, and payroll and
related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling
activities. The Company expenses general media advertising costs
as incurred. The Company enters into certain online promotional
agreements with third parties to increase traffic to its Web
sites. Costs associated with these promotional agreements
consist of fixed payments, variable activity-based payments, or
a combination of the two. Fixed payments are amortized ratably
over the corresponding agreement term and variable payments are
expensed in the period incurred. The Company receives
reimbursements from vendors for certain general media and other
advertising costs. Such reimbursements are recorded as a
reduction of expense. Advertising expense and other promotional
costs were $114 million, $125 million and
$172 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Prepaid
advertising costs were $1 million and $2 million at
December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
Technology and content expenses consist
principally of payroll and related expenses for development,
editorial, systems, and telecommunications operations personnel;
and systems and telecommunications infrastructure.
Technology and content costs are expensed as
incurred, except for certain costs relating to the development
of internal-use software, including upgrades and enhancements to
the Company's Web sites, that are capitalized and
depreciated over two years. Fixed assets associated with
capitalized internal-use software, net of accumulated
depreciation, was $23 million and $24 million at
December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Costs capitalized
during the application development stage for internal-use
software, offset by corresponding amortization, was a net
expense of $1 million in 2002, and net deferrals of
$3 million and $14 million in 2001 and 2000,
respectively.
Stock-based compensation includes stock-based
charges resulting from variable accounting treatment of certain
stock options, restricted stock issued to certain key employees
and amounts associated with the Company's restricted stock
unit program, which commenced in the fourth quarter of 2002.
Stock-based compensation also includes, to a lesser extent, a
portion of acquisition-related consideration conditioned on the
continued tenure of certain key employees of acquired businesses.
The Company generally has four categories of
employee stock-based awards: restricted stock units, restricted
stock, fixed-award stock options and options subject to variable
accounting treatment. At December 31, 2002, the Company has
three stock-based employee compensation plans, which are more
fully described in "Note 8 --
Stockholders' Equity (Deficit)." The Company accounts
for those plans under the intrinsic value method, which follows
the recognition and measurement principles of APB Opinion
No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,
and related Interpretations. The intrinsic value method of
accounting results in stock compensation expense to the extent
option exercise prices are set below market prices on the date
of grant. Also, to the extent employee stock awards have been
subject to an exchange offer or other modifications, such awards
are subject to variable accounting treatment. Variable
accounting treatment results in expense or contra-expense
recognition using the cumulative expense method, calculated
based on quoted prices of the Company's common stock and
vesting schedules of underlying awards.
57
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
Restricted stock and restricted stock units are
measured at fair value on the date of grant based on the number
of shares granted and the quoted price of the Company's
common stock. Such value is recognized as an expense ratably
over the corresponding employee service period. To the extent
restricted stock or restricted stock units are forfeited prior
to vesting, the corresponding previously recognized expense is
reversed as an offset to "Stock-based compensation."
Stock-based compensation associated with restricted stock units
was $4 million during 2002.
During the first quarter of 2001, the Company
offered a limited non-compulsory exchange of employee stock
options. The exchange resulted in the voluntary cancellation of
employee stock options to purchase 31 million shares of
common stock with varying exercise prices in exchange for
employee stock options to purchase 12 million shares of
common stock with an exercise price of $13.375. The option
exchange offer resulted in variable accounting treatment for, at
the time of the exchange, approximately 15 million stock
options, which includes options granted under the exchange offer
and 3 million options, with a weighted average exercise
price of $52.41, that were subject to the exchange offer but
were not exchanged. Variable accounting will continue until all
options subject to variable accounting treatment are exercised,
cancelled or expired. At December 31, 2002, approximately
5 million options remain under variable accounting
treatment, which includes 4 million options granted under
the exchange offer and 1 million options, with a weighted
average exercise price of $43.49, that were subject to the
exchange offer but were not exchanged.
The following table summarizes relevant
information as to reported results under the Company's
intrinsic value method of accounting for stock awards, with
supplemental information as if the fair value recognition
provisions of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock
Based Compensation," had been applied (in thousands, except
per share data):
The fair value for each option granted was
estimated at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes
option-pricing model, assuming no expected dividends and the
following weighted average assumptions:
The weighted average fair value of stock awards
(including restricted stock units granted in 2002) granted
during 2002, 2001 and 2000 was $14.99, $5.98 and $22.12,
respectively.
58
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
The Company has the following
internationally-focused Web sites: ,
, , and
. Net sales generated from these Web sites,
as well as most of the related expenses incurred, are
denominated in the functional currencies of the Web sites.
Additionally, the functional currency of the Company's
subsidiaries that either operate or support ,
, , and
is the same as the local currency of the
United Kingdom, Germany, France, Japan and Canada, respectively.
Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated into
U.S. Dollars at year-end exchange rates, and revenues and
expenses are translated at average rates prevailing during the
year. Translation adjustments are included in "Accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss)," a separate component of
stockholders' deficit. Transaction gains and losses arising
from transactions denominated in a currency other than the
functional currency of the entity involved, are included in
"Other income (expense), net" on the consolidated
statements of operations. See "Note 11 --
Other Income (Expense), Net."
Effective January 1, 2001, the Company
adopted SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities," which requires that
all derivative instruments be recorded on the balance sheet at
fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are
recorded each period in current results of operations or other
comprehensive income (loss) depending on whether a
derivative is designated as part of a hedge transaction and, if
it is, the type of hedge transaction. For a derivative
designated as a fair value hedge, the gain or loss of the
derivative in the period of change and the offsetting loss or
gain of the hedged item attributed to the hedged risk are
recognized in results of operations. For a derivative designated
as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the
derivative's gain or loss is initially reported as a
component of other comprehensive income (loss) and
subsequently reclassified into results of operations when the
hedged exposure affects results of operations. The ineffective
portion of the gain or loss of a cash flow hedge is recognized
currently in results of operations. For a derivative not
designated as a hedging instrument, the gain or loss is
recognized currently in results of operations.
The Company is exposed to the risk of
fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the
U.S. Dollar and the Euro associated with its 6.875%
Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2010 ("6.875%
PEACS") (See "Note 6 -- Long-Term Debt
and Other"). To minimize a portion of the risk from this
exposure, the Company has designated a swap agreement as a cash
flow hedge of a portion of the 6.875% PEACS' principal and
interest based upon the criteria established by SFAS
No. 133. The terms of the hedge instrument have been
structured to match the related terms of the hedged portion of
the 6.875% PEACS. No net gains or losses resulting from hedge
ineffectiveness were recognized in results of operations during
the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
The Company holds warrants to purchase equity
securities of other companies. Warrants that can be exercised
and settled by delivery of net shares such that the Company pays
no cash upon exercise are deemed derivative financial
instruments. Net share warrants are not designated as hedging
instruments; accordingly, gains or losses resulting from changes
in fair value are recognized on the consolidated statements of
operations, "Other gains (losses), net," in the period
of change. The Company determines the fair value of its warrants
through option-pricing models using current market price and
volatility assumptions, including public-company market
comparables for its private-company warrants.
The adoption of SFAS No. 133 on
January 1, 2001 resulted in cumulative transition losses of
$11 million included in the results of operations and a
stockholders' deficit adjustment of $12 million.
Transition losses included in "Cumulative effect of change
in accounting principle" are attributable to approximately
$3 million in losses reclassified from "Accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss)" on warrants previously
reported at fair value and classified as available-for-sale, and
approximately $8 million
59
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
in losses on warrants previously reported at
cost. No warrant investments are designated as hedging
instruments. Transition losses in "Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss)" are attributable to
approximately $15 million in losses on the swap agreement
designated as a cash flow hedge of a portion of the 6.875% PEACS
offset by the approximately $3 million in losses
reclassified to results of operations on derivative instruments
not designated as hedging instruments.
Effective January 1, 2001, currency gains
and losses arising from the remeasurement of the 6.875%
PEACS' principal from Euros to U.S. Dollars each
period are recorded to "Other gains (losses), net."
Prior to January 1, 2001, 6.875% PEACS' principal of
615 million Euros was designated as a hedge of an
equivalent amount of Euro-denominated investments classified as
available-for-sale; accordingly, currency gains and losses on
the 6.875% PEACS were recorded to "Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss)" on the consolidated balance
sheets as hedging offsets to currency gains and losses on the
Euro-denominated investments. As this hedge does not qualify for
hedge accounting under the provisions of SFAS No. 133,
commencing January 1, 2001, the foreign currency change
resulting from the portion of the 6.875% PEACS previously
hedging the available-for-sale securities is now being recorded
to "Other gains (losses), net" on the consolidated
statements of operations.
Basic earnings per share is computed using the
weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the
period, net of shares subject to restrictions, and excludes any
dilutive effects of options or warrants, restricted stock units
and convertible securities. Diluted earnings per share is
computed using the weighted average number of common and common
stock equivalent shares outstanding (including the effect of
restricted stock units) during the period; common stock
equivalent shares are excluded from the computation if their
effect is antidilutive.
In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long-Lived Assets," that is applicable to financial
statements issued for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2001. The FASB's new rules on asset
impairment supersede SFAS No. 121, "Accounting for the
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be
Disposed Of," and portions of Accounting Principles
Bulletin Opinion 30, "Reporting the Results of
Operations." This Standard provides a single accounting
model for long-lived assets to be disposed of and significantly
changes the criteria that would have to be met to classify an
asset as held-for-sale. Classification as held-for-sale is an
important distinction since such assets are not depreciated and
are stated at the lower of fair value and carrying amount. This
Standard also requires expected future operating losses from
discontinued operations to be displayed in the period(s) in
which the losses are incurred, rather than as of the measurement
date as presently required. The provisions of this Standard are
not expected to have a significant effect on the Company's
financial position or operating results.
In November 2002, the EITF reached a consensus on
Issue 02-16, addressing the accounting of cash consideration
received by a customer from a vendor, including vendor rebates
and refunds. The consensus reached states that consideration
received should be presumed to be a reduction of the prices of
the vendor's products or services and should therefore be
shown as a reduction of cost of sales in the income statement of
the customer. The presumption could be overcome if the vendor
receives an identifiable benefit in exchange for the
consideration or the consideration represents a reimbursement of
a specific incremental identifiable cost incurred by the
customer in selling the vendor's product or service. If one
of these conditions is met, the cash consideration should be
characterized as a reduction of those costs in the income
statement of the customer. The consensus reached also concludes
that if rebates or refunds can be reasonably estimated, such
rebates or refunds should be recognized as a reduction of the
cost of sales
60
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
based on a systematic and rational allocation of
the consideration to be received relative to the transactions
that mark the progress of the customer toward earning the rebate
or refund. The provisions of this consensus are applied
prospectively and are consistent with the Company's
existing accounting policy.
In November 2002, the EITF reached a consensus on
Issue 00-21, addressing how to account for arrangements that
involve the delivery or performance of multiple products,
services, and/or rights to use assets. Revenue arrangements with
multiple deliverables are divided into separate units of
accounting if the deliverables in the arrangement meet the
following criteria: (1) the delivered item has value to the
customer on a standalone basis; (2) there is objective and
reliable evidence of the fair value of undelivered items; and
(3) delivery of any undelivered item is probable.
Arrangement consideration should be allocated among the separate
units of accounting based on their relative fair values, with
the amount allocated to the delivered item being limited to the
amount that is not contingent on the delivery of additional
items or meeting other specified performance conditions. The
final consensus will be applicable to agreements entered into in
fiscal periods beginning after June 15, 2003 with early
adoption permitted. The provisions of this Consensus are not
expected to have a significant effect on the Company's
financial position or operating results.
In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 148, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation -- Transition and Disclosure." This
Statement amends SFAS No. 123, "Stock-Based
Compensation," to provide alternative methods of transition
for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of
accounting for stock-based employee compensation. In addition,
this Statement amends the disclosure requirements of SFAS
No. 123 to require prominent disclosures in both annual and
interim financial statements about the method of accounting for
stock-based employee compensation and the effect of the method
used on reported results. The disclosure provisions of this
Standard are effective for fiscal years ending after
December 15, 2002 and have been incorporated into these
financial statements and accompanying footnotes.
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified
to conform to the current year presentation.
Note 2 -- Cash, Cash Equivalents and
Marketable Securities
The following tables summarize, by major security
type, the Company's cash and marketable securities (in
thousands):
61
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
The following table summarizes contractual
maturities of the Company's cash equivalent and marketable
fixed-income securities as of December 31, 2002 (in
thousands):
Gross gains of $9 million, $9 million,
and $7 million and gross losses of $1 million,
$32 million and $11 million were realized on sales of
available-for-sale marketable securities for the years ended
December 31, 2002, 2001, and 2000 respectively.
The Company has pledged a portion of its
marketable securities as collateral for stand-by letters of
credit that guarantee certain of its contractual obligations, a
majority of which relates to property leases; the swap agreement
that hedges foreign exchange rate risk on a portion of its
6.875% PEACS; and some of its real estate lease agreements. See
"Note 6 -- Long-Term Debt and Other" and
"Note 7 -- Commitments and
Contingencies."
62
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
Fixed assets, at cost, consist of the following
(in thousands):
Depreciation expense on fixed assets was
$77 million, $83 million and $83 million, which
includes amortization of fixed assets acquired under capital
lease obligations of $7 million, $9 million and
$11 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.
Activity in the Company's equity-method and
cost-method investments for the years ended December 31,
2002 and 2001, is as follows (in thousands):
63
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
Effective January 1, 2001, the
Company's adoption of SFAS No. 133 resulted in the
recording of a loss totaling $8 million to report certain
warrants at fair value. Prior to adoption, such warrants were
carried at cost.
At December 31, 2002 and 2001, cost-method
investments recorded in "Other equity investments"
included $5 million and $3 million, respectively, of
investments recorded at fair value and $10 million and
$15 million, respectively, of investments carried at cost.
Gross unrealized gains and losses were not significant at
December 31, 2002 and 2001.
At December 31, 2002 and 2001, the fair
value of the Company's investments in the common stock of
publicly held equity-method investees was $31 million and
$25 million, respectively.
Activity in unearned revenue was as follows (in
thousands):
All amounts recorded as accounts receivable,
including amounts associated with unearned revenue, are legally
due and contractually enforceable. At December 31, 2002
accounts receivable, net associated with unearned revenue was
$2 million.
During 2001, the Company recognized previously
unearned revenue associated with the termination of its
commercial agreement with Kozmo.com, which was included in
"Other gains (losses), net" on the accompanying
consolidated statements of operations. Since services had not
yet been performed under the contract, no amounts associated
with the Kozmo.com commercial agreement were previously
recognized in "Net sales" on the accompanying
consolidated statements of operations during any period.
64
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
The Company's long-term debt and other
long-term liabilities are summarized as follows (in thousands):
On February 16, 2000, the Company completed
an offering of 690 million Euros of 6.875% PEACS due 2010.
The 6.875% PEACS are convertible into the Company's common
stock at a conversion price of 84.883 Euros per share. The
initial conversion price of 104.947 Euros per share was adjusted
down due to reset provisions in the note. Interest on the 6.875%
PEACS is payable annually in arrears in February of each year.
The 6.875% PEACS are unsecured and are subordinated to all of
the Company's existing and future senior indebtedness. The
6.875% PEACS rank equally with the Company's outstanding
4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes. Subject to certain
conditions, the 6.875% PEACS may be redeemed at the
Company's option on or after February 20, 2003, in
whole or in part, at the redemption price of 1,000 Euros per
note, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
Upon the occurrence of a "fundamental
change" prior to the maturity of the 6.875% PEACS, each
holder thereof has the right to require the Company to redeem
all or any part of such holder's 6.875% PEACS at a price
equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes being
redeemed, together with accrued interest. As defined in the
indenture, a "fundamental change" is the occurrence of
certain types of transactions in which the stockholders do not
receive publicly-traded securities.
The indenture governing the 6.875% PEACS contains
certain affirmative covenants of the Company, including making
principal and interest payments when due, maintaining its
corporate existence and properties and paying taxes and other
claims in a timely manner. The Company was in compliance with
these covenants at December 31, 2002.
In order to hedge a portion of the risk of
foreign exchange fluctuations between the U.S. Dollar and
the Euro, the Company entered into a cross-currency swap
agreement. Under the swap agreement, the Company agreed to pay
at inception and receive upon maturity 75 million Euros in
exchange for receiving at inception and paying at maturity
$67 million. In addition, the Company agreed to receive in
February of each year 27 million Euros for interest
payments on 390 million Euros of the 6.875% PEACS and,
simultaneously, to pay $32 million. The agreement expires
February 16, 2010 and is cancelable, in whole or in part,
at the Company's option at no cost on or after
February 20, 2003 if the Company's underlying
65
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
stock price (converted into Euros) is greater
than or equal to the minimum conversion price of the 6.875%
PEACS. The Company has designated the swap agreement as a cash
flow hedge of the foreign exchange rate risk on a portion of the
6.875% PEACS principal and interest in accordance with the
provisions of SFAS No. 133. Each period, gains or losses
resulting from changes in the fair value of the swap contract
are recorded to "Accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss)" and a portion of such gain or loss is immediately
reclassified to the statement of operations, "Other gains
(losses), net," to offset the foreign currency loss or gain
attributable to remeasurement of the hedged portion of the
6.875% PEACS. For the year ended December 31, 2002, a
currency swap gain of $13 million was reclassified to
offset a $13 million currency loss on the 6.875% PEACS. The
terms of the swap contract have been structured to match the
terms of the hedged portion of the 6.875% PEACS. No net gains or
losses, resulting from hedge ineffectiveness, were recognized in
results of operations during the year ended December 31,
2002 and 2001.
Effective January 1, 2001, currency gains
and losses arising from the remeasurement of the 6.875%
PEACS's principal from Euros to U.S. Dollars each
period are recorded to "Other gains (losses), net."
Prior to January 1, 2001, 6.875% PEACS's principal of
615 million Euros was designated as a hedge of an
equivalent amount of Euro-denominated investments classified as
available-for-sale; accordingly, currency gains and losses on
the 6.875% PEACS were recorded to "Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss)" on the consolidated balance
sheets as hedging offsets to currency gains and losses on the
Euro-denominated investments. As the hedge does not qualify for
hedge accounting under the provisions of SFAS No. 133,
commencing January 1, 2001, the foreign currency change
resulting from the portion of the 6.875% PEACS previously
hedging the available-for-sale securities is now being recorded
to "Other gains (losses), net" on the consolidated
statements of operations. The change resulted in a gain of
$47 million for the year ended December 31, 2001,
consisting of a $10 million gain reclassified from
"Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)" and a
$37 million gain attributable to remeasurement of the
6.875% PEACS during the period.
The fair value of the swap is determined as the
present value of net future cash payments and receipts, adjusted
for the Company's ability to cancel the agreement and the
likelihood of such cancellation. The fair value takes into
consideration current foreign exchange rates, market interest
rates, the current market price of the Company's common
stock and other variables. The fair value of the swap obligation
was $12 million and $33 million at December 31,
2002 and December 31, 2001, respectively. Based upon quoted
market prices, the fair value of the 6.875% PEACS was
$531 million and $310 million, as of December 31,
2002 and December 31, 2001, respectively.
On February 3, 1999, the Company completed
an offering of $1.25 billion of 4.75% Convertible
Subordinated Notes due 2009. The 4.75% Convertible Subordinated
Notes are convertible into the Company's common stock at
the holders' option at a conversion price of $78.0275 per
share, subject to adjustment in certain events. Interest on the
4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes is payable semi-annually in
arrears on February 1 and August 1 of each year, and
commenced August 1, 1999. The 4.75% Convertible
Subordinated Notes are unsecured and are subordinated to all
existing and future Senior Indebtedness as defined in the
indenture governing the 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes. At
any time on or after February 6, 2002, on at least
30 days' notice the Company may redeem the notes, in
whole or in part, at a premium of 3.325% over its principal
balance, together with accrued interest. The redemption premium
is thereafter reduced by 0.475% on each February 1 between
2003 and 2009.
Upon the occurrence of a "fundamental
change" prior to the maturity of the 4.75% Convertible
Subordinated Notes, each holder thereof has the right to require
the Company to redeem all or any part of such holder's
4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes at a price equal to 100% of
the principal amount of
66
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
the notes being redeemed, together with accrued
interest. As defined in the indenture, a "fundamental
change" is the occurrence of certain types of transactions
in which the stockholders do not receive publicly-traded
securities.
The indenture governing the 4.75% Convertible
Subordinated Notes contains certain affirmative covenants of the
Company, including making principal and interest payments when
due, maintaining its corporate existence and properties, paying
taxes and other claims in a timely manner and the provision of
information required under Rule 144A of the Securities Act
of 1933 to enable holders to sell without registration. The
Company was in compliance with these covenants at
December 31, 2002.
Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value
of the 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes as of
December 31, 2002 and December 31, 2001 was
$925 million and $625 million, respectively.
In 1998, the Company completed the offering of
approximately $326 million of 10% Senior Discount Notes due
May 1, 2008 ("Original Senior Discount Notes").
Pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-4 in
September 1998, the Company completed an exchange offer of 10%
Senior Discount Notes due 2008 ("Exchange Notes" or
"Senior Discount Notes"), which are registered under
the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, for all outstanding
Original Senior Discount Notes. The Exchange Notes have
identical terms in all material respects to the terms of the
Original Senior Discount Notes, except that the Exchange Notes
generally are freely transferable (the Exchange Notes are
referred to throughout these notes to consolidated financial
statements interchangeably with the Original Senior Discount
Notes). The Exchange Notes were issued under the indenture
governing the Original Senior Discount Notes
("Indenture"). The Original Senior Discount Notes were
sold at a substantial discount from their original principal
amount at maturity of $530 million. Prior to
November 1, 2003, no cash interest payments are required;
instead, interest will accrete during this period to the
aggregate principal amount at maturity. From and after
May 1, 2003, the Senior Discount Notes will bear interest
at a rate of 10% per annum payable in cash on each May 1
and November 1. The Senior Discount Notes are redeemable,
at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at any time
on or after May 1, 2003, at the redemption prices set forth
in the Indenture, plus accrued interest, if any, to the date of
redemption.
During 1999, the Company repurchased
$266 million (principal amount) of the Senior Discount
Notes, representing accreted value of $178 million,
resulting in a remaining outstanding principal amount of
$264 million. The Company recorded an immaterial loss on
extinguishment of this debt. No repurchases of Senior Discount
Notes occurred in 2002, 2001 or 2000.
The Senior Discount Notes are senior unsecured
indebtedness of the Company ranking equally with the
Company's existing and future unsubordinated, unsecured
indebtedness and senior in right of payment to all subordinated
indebtedness of the Company. The Senior Discount Notes are
effectively subordinated to all secured indebtedness and to all
existing and future liabilities of the Company's
subsidiaries.
The Indenture contains certain covenants that,
among other things, limit the ability of the Company and its
"Restricted Subsidiaries" (as defined in the
Indenture) to incur indebtedness, pay dividends, prepay
subordinated indebtedness, repurchase capital stock, make
investments, create liens, engage in transactions with
stockholders and affiliates, sell assets and engage in mergers
and consolidations. However, these limitations are subject to a
number of important qualifications and exceptions. The Company
was in compliance with all covenants at December 31, 2002.
Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value
of the outstanding Senior Discount Notes was $263 million
and $194 million as of December 31, 2002 and
December 31, 2001, respectively.
67
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
Note 7 -- Commitments and
Contingencies
Commitments
The Company currently leases office and
fulfillment center facilities and fixed assets under
non-cancelable operating and capital leases. Rental expense
under operating lease agreements for 2002, 2001 and 2000 was
$56 million, $81 million and $98 million,
respectively.
The following are the Company's contractual
commitments associated with its operational restructuring,
indebtedness, lease obligations and marketing agreements (in
thousands):
Restructuring-related lease obligations are as
follows (in thousands):
68
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
Long-term capital lease obligations are as
follows (in thousands):
The Company has pledged a portion of its
marketable securities as collateral for stand-by letters of
credit that guarantee certain of its contractual obligations, a
majority of which relates to property leases; the swap agreement
that hedges the foreign exchange risk on a portion of its 6.875%
PEACS; and some of its real estate lease agreements. The amount
of marketable securities the Company is required to pledge
pursuant to the swap agreement fluctuates with the fair market
value of the swap obligation. The change in the total amount of
collateral pledged under these agreements is as follows (in
thousands):
On April 12, 2001, the Company received a
request from the Securities and Exchange Commission
("SEC") staff for the voluntary production of
documents and information concerning, among other things,
previously reported sales of the Company's common stock by
our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Jeffrey Bezos, on
February 2 and 5, 2001. The Company is cooperating with the
SEC staff's continuing inquiry.
A number of purported class action complaints
were filed by holders of the Company's equity and debt
securities against the Company, its directors and certain of its
senior officers during 2001, in the United States District Court
for the Western District of Washington, alleging violations of
the Securities Act of 1933 (the "1933 Act") and/or the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "1934 Act"). On
October 5, 2001, plaintiffs in the 1934 Act cases filed a
consolidated amended complaint alleging that the Company,
together with certain of its officers and directors and certain
third-parties, made false or misleading statements during the
period from October 29, 1998 through July 23, 2001
concerning the Company's business, financial condition and
results, inventories, future prospects and strategic alliance
transactions. The 1933 Act complaint alleges that the defendants
made false or misleading statements in connection with our
February 2000 offering of the 6.875% PEACS. The complaints seek
recissionary and/or compensatory damages and injunctive relief
against all defendants. The Company disputes the allegations of
wrongdoing in these complaints and intends to vigorously defend
itself in these matters.
On August 28, 2002, the Trustee for the
Creditors' Trust for Living.com instituted an adversary
proceeding against a subsidiary of the Company in the United
States Bankruptcy Court for the Western District of Texas. The
plaintiff alleges that Living.com's creditors are entitled
to a contractual recovery of
69
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
approximately $58 million in fees that
Living.com had previously paid in 2000 primarily by issuing
Living.com stock to the Company. The Company disputes the
plaintiff's allegations and intends to vigorously defend
itself in this matter.
On October 29, 2002, Gary Gerlinger,
individually and on behalf of all other similarly situated
consumers in the United States who, during the period from
August 1, 2001 to the present, purchased books online from
either Amazon.com or Borders.com, instituted an action against
the Company and Borders in the United States District Court for
the Northern District of California. The complaint alleges that
the agreement pursuant to which an affiliate of Amazon.com
operates Borders.com as a co-branded site violates federal
anti-trust laws, California statutory law and the common law of
unjust enrichment. The complaint seeks injunctive relief,
damages, including treble damages or statutory damages where
applicable, attorneys fees, costs and disbursements,
disgorgement of all sums obtained by allegedly wrongful acts,
interest and declaratory relief. The Company disputes the
plaintiff's allegations of wrongdoing and intends to
vigorously defend itself in this matter.
Depending on the amount and the timing, an
unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could
materially affect the Company's business, future results of
operations, financial position or cash flows in a particular
period.
From time to time, the Company is subject to
other legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of
business, including claims of alleged infringement of
trademarks, copyrights, patents, and other intellectual property
rights. The Company currently is not aware of any such legal
proceedings or claims that it believes will have, individually
or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on its business,
financial condition, or operating results.
During 2002, the Company purchased over 10% of
all inventory purchases from a single vendor, Ingram Book Group.
No other vendors account for over 10%. The Company does not have
long-term contracts or arrangements with most of its vendors to
guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment
terms or the extension of credit limits.
The Company has authorized
500,000,000 shares of $0.01 par value Preferred Stock. No
preferred stock shares were outstanding during 2002, 2001 or
2000.
Three of the Company's equity-method
investees, HomeGrocer.com, Inc., Pets.com, Inc. and
drugstore.com, inc., completed public offerings of their common
stock during 2000. As a result of those public offerings, the
Company's ownership percentage in each investee was
diluted, creating an "implied sale" of a portion of
its investments. In accordance with SEC Staff Accounting
Bulletin No. 51, "Accounting for Sales of Stock by a
Subsidiary," the Company recorded unrealized gains, net of
unrealized losses, as additional paid-in capital totaling
$77 million in 2000. The unrealized gains, net, represent
the difference between the Company's carrying basis and the
fair value of the portion of each
70
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
investment deemed to have been sold by the
investees. Details of these offerings and the effect on the
Company's ownership and cost basis in the investees are as
follows:
The Company's stock award plans consist of
the 1999 Nonofficer Employee Stock Option Plan, the 1997 Stock
Incentive Plan and the Amended and Restated 1994 Stock Option
Plan. Shares reserved under these plans consist of
40 million shares in the 1999 Nonofficer Employee Stock
Option Plan, 109 million shares in the 1997 Stock Incentive
Plan and 58 million shares in the 1994 Stock Option Plan,
of which up to a maximum of 21,025,075 shares that are not
issued under that plan may be added to the aggregate number of
shares available for issuance under the 1997 Stock Incentive
Plan. In connection with certain acquisitions in 1999, the
Company assumed outstanding options to purchase common stock
originally issued under the acquired companies' stock
option plans. The Company's stock award plans as well as
the assumed stock award plans are hereby collectively referred
to as the "Plans."
In 2002, the Company transitioned to using
restricted stock units, awarded under the 1997 Stock Incentive
Plan, as its primary vehicle for employee equity compensation.
Employees vest in restricted stock unit awards ratably over the
corresponding service term, generally three to six years. As it
relates to stock option awards, the Company's Board of
Directors generally sets an exercise price of not less than the
fair market value of the Company's common stock at the date
of grant. Each outstanding option granted prior to
December 20, 1996 has a term of five years from the date of
vesting. Generally, outstanding options granted on or subsequent
to December 20, 1996 have a term of 10 years from the
date of grant. Subject to Internal Revenue Service limitations,
options granted under the Company's plans prior to April
1999 and granted under certain assumed plans generally became
exercisable immediately but are subject to a restriction on
transfer that vests over a period of time. Options granted under
the Plans since April 1999 generally vest and become exercisable
in accordance with the following vesting schedule: 20% after
year one, 20% after year two and 5% at the end of each quarter
for years three through five. Certain outstanding options that
were granted during 2000 and 2001 vest and become exercisable at
the rate of 50% after year one and 50% after year two. During
the first quarter of 2001, the Company offered a limited
non-compulsory exchange of employee stock options to employees
meeting certain eligibility criteria. Options granted pursuant
to this stock option exchange vest and become exercisable at the
rate of 25% after 6 months from the date of grant and
4.166% per month for the succeeding 18 months. Certain
options granted in the third quarter of 2001 generally vest and
become exercisable as follows: (i) the option vests
quarterly in equal installments over a 36, 48 or 60 month
period commencing on dates ranging from grant date to
October 1, 2003, (ii) the option vests 5% to 12.5% on
a date approximately 12 to 16 months from date of grant
with the balance vesting quarterly in equal installments over a
48 to 60 month period or (iii) the option vests 4% to
12.5% on dates approximately 6 months and 18 months
71
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
from the date of grant with the balance vesting
quarterly in equal installments over a 24 or 60 month
period. Shares issued upon exercise of options that are unvested
are restricted and subject to repurchase by the Company at the
exercise price upon termination of employment or services and
such restrictions lapse over the vesting schedule. At
December 31, 2002, approximately 1 million shares of
restricted common stock, which includes restricted shares issued
in connection with acquisitions as well as shares issued to
certain key employees in 2001 and 2002, were subject to
repurchase or forfeiture.
At December 31, 2002, outstanding stock
awards totaled 45 million, which includes 42 million
stock options and 3 million restricted stock units.
The following table summarizes the Company's
stock option activity:
At December 31, 2002, 84 million shares
of common stock were available for future grant under the Plans.
The following table summarizes information about
stock options outstanding at December 31, 2002:
72
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
The Company recorded aggregate deferred
stock-based compensation of $5 million and $9 million
in 2002 and 2001 respectively. No similar amounts were recorded
in 2000. Deferred stock-based compensation was recorded in
connection with the Company's restricted common stock
issued to key employees for future services. The amounts
recorded represent the fair value of the Company's common
stock issued on the date of grant. Such value is recognized as
an expense ratably over the corresponding service period, which
is generally five years. Additionally, in 2002, 2001 and 2000,
the Company recorded adjustments to reduce previously recorded
deferred stock-based compensation of $2 million,
$4 million and $3 million, respectively, representing
the remaining unvested portion of restricted stock awards upon
termination of certain key employees prior to vesting.
The changes in the components of comprehensive
loss were as follows (in thousands):
73
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
The Company is not able to predict future gains
or losses due to the remeasurement of the hedged portion of the
6.875% PEACS and equivalent reclassifications of losses or gains
on the swap contract from accumulated other comprehensive loss
to earnings.
At December 31, 2002, common stock reserved
for future issuance is as follows (in thousands):
The following represents the calculations for net
loss per share (in thousands, except per share data):
All of the Company's stock awards (see
"Note 8 -- Stockholders' Equity
(Deficit)") are excluded from diluted loss per share since
their effect is antidilutive.
Restructuring-related and other expenses were
$42 million, $182 million and $200 million for
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. In the first quarter of 2001,
the Company announced and began implementation of its
operational restructuring plan to reduce operating costs,
streamline its organizational structure, consolidate certain of
its fulfillment and customer service operations and migrate a
large portion of its technology infrastructure to a new
operating platform. This initiative involved the reduction of
employee staff by 1,327 positions throughout the Company in
managerial, professional, clerical, technical and fulfillment
roles; consolidation of its Seattle, Washington corporate office
locations; closure of its McDonough, Georgia fulfillment center;
seasonal operation of its Seattle, Washington fulfillment
center; closure of its customer service centers in Seattle,
Washington and The Hague, Netherlands; and migration
74
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
of a large portion of its technology
infrastructure to a new operating platform, which entails
ongoing lease obligations for technology infrastructure no
longer being utilized. Actual employee termination benefits paid
were $12 million. The restructuring is complete; however,
the Company may adjust its restructuring-related estimates in
the future, if necessary.
During 2002, the Company revised its estimates of
ongoing net lease obligations for its facilities in Seattle,
Washington and McDonough, Georgia, primarily due to weakness in
these real estate markets; reached a termination agreement with
the landlord of its leased fulfillment center facility in
McDonough, Georgia; and permanently closed its fulfillment
center in Seattle, Washington.
Restructuring-related charges were as follows (in
thousands):
At December 31, 2002, the accrued liability
associated with restructuring-related and other charges was
$57 million and consisted of the following (in thousands):
75
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
Restructuring-related lease obligations are as
follows (in thousands):
Restructuring-related and other expenses in 2000
primarily relate to impairments of goodwill and other
intangibles recorded in connection with certain of the
Company's business acquisitions.
Note 11 -- Other Income (Expense),
Net
Other income (expense), net consisted of the
following (in thousands):
Note 12 -- Other Gains (Losses),
Net
Other gains (losses), net consisted of the
following (in thousands):
Note 13 -- Income
Taxes
The Company has provided for current and deferred
U.S. federal, state and foreign income taxes for the
current and all prior periods presented. Current and deferred
income taxes were provided with respect to jurisdictions where
subsidiaries of the Company produce taxable income. As of
December 31, 2002, the Company has recorded a net deferred
tax asset of $3 million, which consists primarily of
certain state jurisdiction net operating loss carryforwards. The
Company has provided a valuation allowance for the
76
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
remainder of its deferred tax asset, consisting
primarily of net operating loss carryforwards, because of
uncertainty regarding its realization. The increase in the
valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset was
$196 million and $492 million for 2002 and 2001,
respectively.
Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects
of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets
and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts
used for income tax purposes. Significant components of the
Company's net deferred tax assets, which are included in
"Accounts receivable, net and other current assets,"
are as follows (in thousands):
At December 31, 2002, the Company had net
operating loss carryforwards of approximately $2.5 billion
related to U.S. federal, state and foreign jurisdictions.
Utilization of net operating losses, which begin to expire at
various times starting in 2010, may be subject to certain
limitations under Sections 382 and 1502 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and other limitations under
state and foreign tax laws. Additionally, approximately
$180 million of capital loss carryforwards begins to expire
in 2005. Approximately $1.2 billion of the Company's
net operating loss carryforwards relates to tax deductible
stock-based compensation in excess of amounts recognized for
financial reporting purposes. To the extent that net operating
loss carryforwards, if realized, relate to stock-based
compensation, the resulting tax benefits will be recorded to
stockholders' equity, rather than to results of operations.
Note 14 -- Employee Benefit
Plan
The Company has a 401(k) savings plan covering
substantially all of its employees. Eligible employees may
contribute through payroll deductions. The Company matches
employees' contributions at the discretion of the
Company's Board of Directors. Through December 31,
2002, the Company has not matched employee contributions to the
401(k) savings plan; however it has announced its intentions to
make employer matching contributions in 2003 using its common
stock.
Note 15 -- Segment
Information
The Company presents information to its chief
operating decision maker in four segments: North America Books,
Music, and DVD/ Video ("BMVD"); North America
Electronics, Tools, and Kitchen ("ETK");
International; and Services. Accordingly, the Company discloses
its segment financial information along these lines.
77
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
The BMVD segment includes retail sales from
and of books, music
and DVD/ video products and magazine subscription commissions.
This segment also includes commissions from sales of these
products, new, used or collectible, through Amazon Marketplace,
amounts earned from sales of these products by other businesses
through the Merchants@ program and product revenues from stores
offering these products through the Syndicated Stores program.
The ETK segment includes
retail sales of electronics, home improvement and home and
garden products, as well as our mail-order catalog sales. This
segment also includes commissions from sales of these products,
new, used or collectible, through Amazon Marketplace and amounts
earned from sales of these products by other businesses through
the Merchants@ program, such as with Office Depot, and will
include revenues from stores offering these products, if any,
through the Syndicated Stores program.
The International segment includes all retail
sales of the following internationally-focused Web sites:
, , and
. These international sites share a
common Amazon.com experience, but are localized in terms of
language, products, customer service and fulfillment. To the
extent available on these sites, this segment includes
commissions and other amounts earned from sales of products
through Amazon Marketplace and revenues from stores offering
products through the Syndicated Stores program, such as
and ,
and amounts earned from sales of products by other
businesses through the Merchants@ program. The International
segment includes export sales from ,
, and
(including export sales from these sites to customers in the
U.S. and Canada), but excludes export sales from
and . Operating
results for the International segment are affected by movements
in foreign exchange rates. During 2002, International segment
revenues improved $47 million, and operating results
improved $4 million in comparison to the prior year due to
changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Services segment consists of commissions,
fees and other amounts earned from the services business,
including the Merchant.com program (such as
), and to the extent full product
categories are not also offered by the Company through its
online retail stores, the Merchants@ program, such as the
apparel store, Toysrus.com and Babiesrus.com stores, and
portions of the Target store at , as well
as the commercial agreement with America Online, Inc. This
segment also includes Auctions, zShops, Amazon Payments and
miscellaneous marketing and promotional agreements.
Included in Services segment revenues are
equity-based service revenues of $13 million,
$27 million and $79 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively.
The Company measures the results of operations of
its reportable segments using a pro forma measure. Pro forma
results from operations, which exclude stock-based compensation,
amortization of goodwill and other intangibles, and
restructuring-related and other charges, are not in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States. Stock-based compensation, amortization of goodwill and
other intangibles, and restructuring-related and other costs are
not allocated to segment results. All other centrally-incurred
operating costs are fully allocated to segment results. There
are no internal transactions between the Company's
reporting segments.
78
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
Information on reportable segments and
reconciliation to consolidated net loss is as follows (in
thousands):
Year Ended 2002:
Year Ended 2001:
79
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
Year Ended 2000:
Net sales to customers outside of the U.S.
represented approximately 35%, 29% and 22% of net sales for
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Other than sales into the
United Kingdom, which represents approximately 11% of total net
sales in 2002, no individual foreign country, geographical area
or customer accounted for more than 10% of net sales in any of
the periods presented.
Depreciation expense, by segment, was as follows
(in thousands):
At December 31, 2002 and 2001, fixed assets,
net totaled $196 million and $228 million in the
United States, respectively, and $43 million and
$44 million in other countries, respectively.
80
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
Note 16 -- Quarterly Results
(Unaudited)
The following tables contain selected unaudited
statement of operations information for each quarter of 2002,
2001 and 2000. The Company believes that the following
information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary
for a fair presentation of the information for the periods
presented. The operating results for any quarter are not
necessarily indicative of results for any future period.
Unaudited quarterly results were as follows (in thousands,
except per share data):
81
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS -- (Continued)
82
Table of Contents
None.
PART III
Information regarding our Executive Officers
required by Item 10 of Part III is set forth in
Item 1 of Part I "Business -- Executive
Officers and Directors." Information required by
Item 10 of Part III regarding our Directors is
included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2003 annual
meeting of stockholders, and is incorporated herein by
reference. Information relating to compliance with
Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is set
forth in the Proxy Statement relating to our 2003 annual meeting
of stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
Information required by Item 11 of
Part III is included in our Proxy Statement relating to our
2003 annual meeting of stockholders and is incorporated herein
by reference.
Information required by Item 12 of
Part III is included in our Proxy Statement relating to our
2003 annual meeting of stockholders and is incorporated herein
by reference.
Information required by Item 13 of
Part III is included in our Proxy Statement relating to our
2003 annual meeting of stockholders and is incorporated herein
by reference.
Within 90 days prior to the date of this
report, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and
with the participation of our principal executive officer and
principal financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design
and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures. Based
on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and
principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure
controls and procedures are effective in timely alerting them to
material information required to be included in our periodic SEC
reports. It should be noted that the design of any system of
controls is based in part upon certain assumptions, and there
can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving
its stated goals.
In addition, we reviewed our internal controls,
and there have been no significant changes in our internal
controls or in other factors that could significantly affect
those controls subsequent to the date of their last evaluation.
83
Table of Contents
PART IV
(a) List of Documents Filed as a Part of
This Report:
(1) Index to
Consolidated Financial Statements:
(2) Index to Financial Statement
Schedules:
Schedule II -- Valuation and
Qualifying Accounts
All other schedules have been omitted because the
required information is included in the consolidated financial
statements or the notes thereto, or is not applicable or
required.
(3) Index to Exhibits
84
Table of Contents
+ Executive Compensation Plan or
Agreement
(b) Reports on Form 8-K:
On November 7, 2002 the Company filed a
Form 8-K under Item 9 announcing that Thomas O. Ryder,
Chairman and CEO of the Reader's Digest Association, was
elected to the Amazon.com Board of Directors.
85
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant
has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, as of February 17,
2003.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities indicated as of February 17, 2003.
86
Table of Contents
CERTIFICATION
I, Jeffrey P. Bezos, certify that:
Date: February 17, 2003
87
Table of Contents
CERTIFICATION
I, Thomas J. Szkutak, certify that:
Date: February 17, 2003
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC.
SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND
QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
Inventory Valuation Allowance
Accounts Receivable
Allowance -- Customers
Accounts Receivable
Allowance -- Vendors
89
Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX
Table of Contents
+ Executive Compensation Plan or
Agreement