.37Table of ContentsAMAZON.COM, INC.CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS(in millions, except per share data) See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.38Table of ContentsAMAZON.COM, INC.CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (in millions)See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.39Table of ContentsAMAZON.COM, INC.CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS(in millions, except per share data) See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.40Table of ContentsAMAZON.COM, INC.CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY(in millions) See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.41Table of ContentsAMAZON.COM, INC.NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTSNote 1--DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND ACCOUNTING POLICIESDescription of BusinessAmazon.com opened its virtual doors on the World Wide Web in July 1995. We seek to be Earth's most customer-centric company. In each of our segments, we serve our primary customer sets, consisting of consumers, sellers, developers, enterprises, and content creators. We serve consumers through our retail websites and physical stores and focus on selection, price, and convenience. We also manufacture and sell electronic devices. We offer programs that enable sellers to sell their products on our websites and their own branded websites and to fulfill orders through us, and programs that allow authors, musicians, filmmakers, app developers, and others to publish and sell content. We serve developers and enterprises of all sizes through our AWS segment, which offers a broad set of global compute, storage, database, and other service offerings. In addition, we provide services, such as fulfillment, publishing, certain digital content subscriptions, advertising, and co-branded credit cards. We have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and AWS. See "Note 11--Segment Information." Prior Period Reclassifications Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation, including the expanded presentation of "Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities" on our consolidated statements of cash flows and the allocation of stock-based compensation to "Other operating expense, net" in the segment results within "Note 11 - Segment Information." These revised segment results reflect the way our chief operating decision maker evaluates the Company's business performance and manages its operations. In addition, excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation were reclassified from "Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities" to "Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities" on our consolidated statements of cash flows as a result of the adoption of new accounting guidance.Principles of ConsolidationThe consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Amazon.com, Inc., its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and those entities in which we have a variable interest and of which we are the primary beneficiary, including certain entities in India and China and that support our seller lending financing activities (collectively, the "Company"). Intercompany balances and transactions between consolidated entities are eliminated. The financial results of Whole Foods Market, Inc. ("Whole Foods Market") have been included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition on August 28, 2017.Use of EstimatesThe preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not limited to, determining the selling price of products and services in multiple element revenue arrangements and determining the amortization period of these elements, incentive discount offers, sales returns, vendor funding, stock-based compensation forfeiture rates, income taxes, valuation and impairment of investments, inventory valuation and inventory purchase commitments, collectability of receivables, valuation of acquired intangibles and goodwill, depreciable lives of property and equipment, internal-use software and website development costs, acquisition purchase price allocations, investments in equity interests, and contingencies. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.Earnings per ShareBasic earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares. Diluted earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares including the dilutive effect of stock awards as determined under the treasury stock method. In periods when we have a net loss, stock awards are excluded from our calculation of earnings per share as their inclusion would have an antidilutive effect.42Table of ContentsThe following table shows the calculation of diluted shares (in millions):RevenueWe recognize revenue from product sales or services rendered when the following four criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or service has been rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units and revenue is allocated using estimated selling prices if we do not have vendor-specific objective evidence or third-party evidence of the selling prices of the deliverables. We allocate the arrangement price to each of the elements based on the relative selling prices of each element. Estimated selling prices are management's best estimates of the prices that we would charge our customers if we were to sell the standalone elements separately and include considerations of customer demand, prices charged by us and others for similar deliverables, and the price if largely based on the cost of producing the product or service. Sales of certain of our digital devices are considered arrangements with multiple deliverables, consisting of the device, undelivered software upgrades and/or undelivered non-software services such as cloud services. The revenue allocated to the device, which is the substantial portion of the total sale price, and related costs are generally recognized upon delivery. Revenue related to undelivered software upgrades and/or undelivered non-software services is deferred and recognized generally on a straight-line basis over the estimated period the software upgrades and non-software services are expected to be provided for each of these devices. Sales of Amazon Prime memberships are also considered arrangements with multiple deliverables, including shipping benefits, Prime Video, Prime Music, Prime Photos, and access to the Kindle Owners' Lending Library. The revenue related to the deliverables is amortized over the life of the membership based on the estimated delivery of services. Amazon Prime membership fees are allocated between product sales and service sales. Costs to deliver Amazon Prime benefits are recognized as cost of sales as incurred. As we add more benefits to the Prime membership, we update the method of determining the estimated selling prices of each element as well as the allocation of Prime membership fees.We evaluate whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of product sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are primarily obligated in a transaction, are subject to inventory risk, have latitude in establishing prices and selecting suppliers, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue is recorded at the gross sale price. We generally record the net amounts as commissions earned if we are not primarily obligated and do not have latitude in establishing prices. Such amounts earned are determined using fixed fees, a percentage of seller revenues, per-unit activity fees, or some combination thereof.Product sales represent revenue from the sale of products and related shipping fees and digital media content where we record revenue gross. Product sales and shipping revenues, net of promotional discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes to customers. Retail sales to customers are made pursuant to a sales contract that provides for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon our delivery to the carrier or the customer. Amazon's electronic devices sold through retailers are recognized at the point of sale to consumers. Service sales represent third-party seller fees earned (including commissions) and related shipping fees, AWS sales, certain digital content subscriptions, certain advertising services, and our co-branded credit card agreements. Service sales, net of promotional discounts and return allowances, are recognized when service has been rendered.Return allowances, which reduce revenue and cost of sales, are estimated using historical experience. Allowance for returns was $153 million, $156 million, and $62 million as of December 31, 2015, 2016, and 2017. Additions to the allowance were $1.3 billion, $1.5 billion, and $1.8 billion, and deductions to the allowance were $1.3 billion, $1.5 billion, and $1.9 billion in 2015, 2016, and 2017. Revenue from product sales and services rendered is recorded net of sales and consumption taxes. Additionally, we periodically provide incentive offers to our customers to encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such as percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such as offers for future discounts subject to a minimum current purchase, and other similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to the purchase price of the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to purchase price based on estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are presented as a net amount in "Total net sales."43Table of ContentsCost of SalesCost of sales primarily consists of the purchase price of consumer products, digital media content costs where we record revenue gross, including video and music, packaging supplies, sortation and delivery centers and related equipment costs, and inbound and outbound shipping costs, including where we are the transportation service provider. Shipping costs to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory, and recognized as cost of sales upon sale of products to our customers. Payment processing and related transaction costs, including those associated with seller transactions, are classified in "Fulfillment" on our consolidated statements of operations.Vendor AgreementsWe have agreements with our vendors to receive funds for advertising services, cooperative marketing efforts, promotions, and volume rebates. We generally consider amounts received from vendors to be a reduction of the prices we pay for their goods, including property and equipment, or services, and therefore record those amounts as a reduction of the cost of inventory, cost of services, or cost of property and equipment. Vendor rebates are typically dependent upon reaching minimum purchase thresholds. We evaluate the likelihood of reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts. When volume rebates can be reasonably estimated, we record a portion of the rebate as we make progress towards the purchase threshold. When we receive direct reimbursements for costs incurred by us in advertising the vendor's product or service, the amount we receive is recorded as an offset to "Marketing" on our consolidated statements of operations.FulfillmentFulfillment costs primarily consist of those costs incurred in operating and staffing our North America and International segments' fulfillment centers, customer service centers, and physical stores, including costs attributable to buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; payment processing and related transaction costs, including costs associated with our guarantee for certain seller transactions; responding to inquiries from customers; and supply chain management for our manufactured electronic devices. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid to third parties that assist us in fulfillment and customer service operations.MarketingMarketing costs primarily consist of targeted online advertising, payroll and related expenses for personnel engaged in marketing and selling activities, and television advertising. We pay commissions to participants in our Associates program when their customer referrals result in product sales and classify such costs as "Marketing" on our consolidated statements of operations. We also participate in cooperative advertising arrangements with certain of our vendors, and other third parties.Advertising and other promotional costs are expensed as incurred and were $3.8 billion, $5.0 billion, and $6.3 billion in 2015, 2016, and 2017. Prepaid advertising costs were not significant as of December 31, 2016 and 2017.Technology and ContentTechnology and content costs include payroll and related expenses for employees involved in the research and development of new and existing products and services, development, design, and maintenance of our websites, curation and display of products and services made available on our websites, and infrastructure costs. Infrastructure costs include servers, networking equipment, and data center related depreciation, rent, utilities, and other expenses necessary to support AWS, as well as these and other efforts. Collectively, these costs reflect the investments we make in order to offer a wide variety of products and services to our customers.Technology and content costs are expensed as incurred, except for certain costs relating to the development of internal-use software and website development costs, including software used to upgrade and enhance our websites and applications supporting our business, which are capitalized and amortized over two years.General and AdministrativeGeneral and administrative expenses primarily consist of payroll and related expenses; facilities and equipment, such as depreciation expense and rent; professional fees and litigation costs; and other general corporate costs for corporate functions, including accounting, finance, tax, legal, and human resources, among others.44Table of ContentsStock-Based CompensationCompensation cost for all stock awards expected to vest is measured at fair value on the date of grant and recognized over the service period. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock, and the fair value of stock options is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model. Such value is recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method. The estimated number of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including employee level, economic conditions, time remaining to vest, and historical forfeiture experience.Other Operating Expense, NetOther operating expense, net, consists primarily of marketing-related, contract-based, and customer-related intangible asset amortization expense, and expenses related to legal settlements.Other Income (Expense), NetOther income (expense), net, consists primarily of foreign currency gains (losses) of $(266) million, $21 million, and $247 million in 2015, 2016, and 2017, equity warrant valuation gains (losses) of $0 million, $67 million, and $109 million in 2015, 2016, and 2017, and realized gains (losses) on marketable securities sales of $(5) million, $(8) million, and $(7) million in 2015, 2016, and 2017.Income TaxesIncome tax expense includes U.S. (federal and state) and foreign income taxes. Tax legislation commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the "2017 Tax Act") includes a mandatory one-time tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, and as a result, all previously unremitted earnings for which no U.S. deferred tax liability had been accrued have now been subject to U.S. tax. Notwithstanding the U.S. taxation of these amounts, we intend to continue to invest most or all of these earnings, as well as our capital in these subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the U.S. and do not expect to incur any significant, additional taxes related to such amounts. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered.Deferred tax assets are evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe they will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent cumulative loss experience and expectations of future earnings, capital gains and investment in such jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors.We utilize a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain income tax positions (tax contingencies). The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We consider many factors when evaluating our tax positions and estimating our tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately forecast actual outcomes. We include interest and penalties related to our tax contingencies in income tax expense.Fair Value of Financial InstrumentsFair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. To increase the comparability of fair value measures, the following hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation methodologies used to measure fair value:Level 1--Valuations based on quoted prices for identical assets and liabilities in active markets.Level 2--Valuations based on observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data.Level 3--Valuations based on unobservable inputs reflecting our own assumptions, consistent with reasonably available assumptions made by other market participants. These valuations require significant judgment.45Table of ContentsFor our cash, cash equivalents, or marketable securities, we measure the fair value of money market funds and equity securities based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. All other financial instruments were valued either based on recent trades of securities in inactive markets or based on quoted market prices of similar instruments and other significant inputs derived from or corroborated by observable market data. We did not hold any cash, cash equivalents, or marketable securities categorized as Level 3 assets as of December 31, 2016 and 2017.As part of entering into commercial agreements, we often obtain equity warrant assets giving us the right to acquire stock of other companies. As of December 31, 2016 and 2017, these warrants had a fair value of $223 million and $441 million, and are recorded within "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets. The related gain (loss) recorded in "Other income (expense), net" was $0 million, $67 million, and $109 million in 2015, 2016, and 2017. These assets are primarily classified as Level 2 assets. Cash and Cash EquivalentsWe classify all highly liquid instruments with an original maturity of three months or less as cash equivalents.InventoriesInventories, consisting of products available for sale, are primarily accounted for using the first-in, first-out method, and are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on currently available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. We provide Fulfillment by Amazon services in connection with certain of our sellers' programs. Third-party sellers maintain ownership of their inventory, regardless of whether fulfillment is provided by us or the third-party sellers, and therefore these products are not included in our inventories.We also purchase electronic device components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, in order to manage manufacturing lead times and help ensure adequate supply, we enter into agreements with contract manufacturers and suppliers for certain electronic device components. A portion of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements consists of firm, non-cancellable commitments. These commitments are based on forecasted customer demand. If we reduce these commitments, we may incur additional costs. We also have firm, non-cancellable commitments for certain products offered in our Whole Foods Market stores. Accounts Receivable, Net and OtherIncluded in "Accounts receivable, net and other" on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to customers, sellers, and vendors. As of December 31, 2016 and 2017, customer receivables, net, were $3.9 billion and $6.4 billion, seller receivables, net, were $661 million and $692 million, and vendor receivables, net, were $2.0 billion and $2.6 billion. Seller receivables are amounts due from sellers related to our seller lending program, which provides funding to sellers primarily to procure inventory.We estimate losses on receivables based on known troubled accounts and historical experience of losses incurred. Receivables are considered impaired and written-off when it is probable that all contractual payments due will not be collected in accordance with the terms of the agreement. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $189 million, $237 million, and $348 million as of December 31, 2015, 2016, and 2017. Additions to the allowance were $289 million, $451 million, and $626 million, and deductions to the allowance were $290 million, $403 million, and $515 million in 2015, 2016, and 2017. The allowance for loan losses related to our seller receivables was not material as of December 31, 2016 and 2017.Internal-Use Software and Website DevelopmentCosts incurred to develop software for internal use and our websites are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life of the software. Costs related to design or maintenance of internal-use software and website development are expensed as incurred. For the years ended 2015, 2016, and 2017, we capitalized $642 million (including $114 million of stock-based compensation), $511 million (including $94 million of stock-based compensation), and $395 million (including $84 million of stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization of previously capitalized amounts was $635 million, $634 million, and $545 million for 2015, 2016, and 2017.Property and Equipment, NetProperty and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Incentives that we receive from property and equipment vendors are recorded as a reduction in our costs. Property includes buildings and land that we own, along with 46Table of Contentsproperty we have acquired under build-to-suit, finance, and capital lease arrangements. Equipment includes assets such as furniture and fixtures, heavy equipment, servers and networking equipment, and internal-use software and website development. Depreciation is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets (generally the lesser of 40 years or the remaining life of the underlying building, two years for assets such as internal-use software, three years for our servers, five years for networking equipment, five years for furniture and fixtures, and ten years for heavy equipment). Depreciation expense is classified within the corresponding operating expense categories on our consolidated statements of operations.Leases and Asset Retirement ObligationsWe categorize leases at their inception as either operating or capital leases. On certain of our lease agreements, we may receive rent holidays and other incentives. We recognize lease costs on a straight-line basis without regard to deferred payment terms, such as rent holidays, that defer the commencement date of required payments. Additionally, incentives we receive are treated as a reduction of our costs over the term of the agreement. Leasehold improvements are capitalized at cost and amortized over the lesser of their expected useful life or the non-cancellable term of the lease.We establish assets and liabilities for the estimated construction costs incurred under build-to-suit lease arrangements to the extent we are involved in the construction of structural improvements or take construction risk prior to commencement of a lease. Upon occupancy of facilities under build-to-suit leases, we assess whether these arrangements qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance. If we continue to be the deemed owner, the facilities are accounted for as finance leases.We establish assets and liabilities for the present value of estimated future costs to retire long-lived assets at the termination or expiration of a lease. Such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted to the future value of the estimated retirement costs.GoodwillWe evaluate goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently when an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. In testing goodwill for impairment, we may elect to utilize a qualitative assessment to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If our qualitative assessment indicates that goodwill impairment is more likely than not, we perform a two-step impairment test. We test goodwill for impairment under the two-step impairment test by first comparing the book value of net assets to the fair value of the reporting units. If the fair value is determined to be less than the book value or qualitative factors indicate that it is more likely than not that goodwill is impaired, a second step is performed to compute the amount of impairment as the difference between the estimated fair value of goodwill and the carrying value. We estimate the fair value of the reporting units using discounted cash flows. Forecasts of future cash flows are based on our best estimate of future net sales and operating expenses, based primarily on expected category expansion, pricing, market segment share, and general economic conditions. We completed the required annual testing of goodwill for impairment for all reporting units as of April 1, 2017, and determined that goodwill is not impaired as the fair value of our reporting units substantially exceeded their book value. There were no triggering events identified from the date of our assessment through December 31, 2017 that would require an update to our annual impairment test. See "Note 4--Acquisitions, Goodwill, and Acquired Intangible Assets."Other AssetsIncluded in "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to acquired intangible assets, net of amortization; video and music content, net of amortization; long-term deferred tax assets; certain equity investments; marketable securities restricted for longer than one year, the majority of which are attributable to collateralization of bank guarantees and debt related to our international operations; and equity warrant assets.Video and Music ContentWe obtain video and music content for customers through licensing agreements that have a wide range of licensing provisions, which include both fixed and variable payment schedules. When the license fee for a specific movie, television, or music title is determinable or reasonably estimable and the content is available for streaming, we recognize an asset representing the fee and a corresponding liability for the amounts owed. We relieve the liability as payments are made and we amortize the asset to "Cost of sales" on a straight-line basis or on an accelerated basis, based on estimated usage patterns, which typically ranges from one to five years. If we are unable to reasonably estimate the cost per title, no asset or liability is recorded and licensing costs are expensed as incurred. We also develop original content. Capitalized production costs associated with our original content are limited by the amount of revenue we expect to earn, which results in a portion being 47Table of Contentsexpensed as incurred. These capitalized costs are amortized to "Cost of sales" on an accelerated basis that follows the viewing pattern of customer streams in the first months after availability. InvestmentsWe generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short- to intermediate-term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market funds. Such investments are included in "Cash and cash equivalents" or "Marketable securities" on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale and reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss."Equity investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting if the investment gives us the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over an investee. Equity-method investments are included within "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets. Our share of the earnings or losses as reported by equity-method investees, amortization of basis differences, and related gains or losses, if any, are classified as "Equity-method investment activity, net of tax" on our consolidated statements of operations. Equity investments without readily determinable fair values and for which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for using the cost method of accounting and classified as "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets. Under the cost method, investments are carried at cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines in fair value, certain distributions, and additional investments.Equity investments that have readily determinable fair values are classified as available-for-sale and are included in "Marketable securities" on our consolidated balance sheets and are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss."We periodically evaluate whether declines in fair values of our investments below their book value are other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists of several qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the severity and duration of the unrealized loss as well as our ability and intent to hold the investment until a forecasted recovery occurs. Additionally, we assess whether we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not we will be required to sell any investment before recovery of its amortized cost basis. Factors considered include quoted market prices; recent financial results and operating trends; implied values from any recent transactions or offers of investee securities; credit quality of debt instrument issuers; other publicly available information that may affect the value of our investments; duration and severity of the decline in value; and our strategy and intentions for holding the investment.Long-Lived AssetsLong-lived assets, other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable.For long-lived assets used in operations, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset's carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when certain criteria are met, including when management has committed to a plan to sell the asset, the asset is available for sale in its immediate condition, and the sale is probable within one year of the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported at the lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell. Assets held for sale were not significant as of December 31, 2016 and 2017.Accrued Expenses and OtherIncluded in "Accrued expenses and other" on our consolidated balance sheets are liabilities primarily related to unredeemed gift cards, leases and asset retirement obligations, current debt, acquired digital media content, and other operating expenses. As of December 31, 2016 and 2017, our liabilities for unredeemed gift cards was $2.4 billion and $3.0 billion. We reduce the liability for a gift card when redeemed by a customer. If a gift card is not redeemed, we recognize revenue when it expires or when the likelihood of its redemption becomes remote, generally two years from the date of issuance.Unearned RevenueUnearned revenue is recorded when payments are received in advance of performing our service obligations and is recognized over the service period. Unearned revenue primarily relates to prepayments of Amazon Prime memberships and AWS services. Included in "Other long-term liabilities" on our consolidated balance sheets was $499 million and $1.0 billion of 48Table of Contentsunearned revenue as of December 31, 2016 and 2017. The amortization of previously unearned revenue was approximately $10.0 billion and $14.3 billion in 2016 and 2017.Foreign CurrencyWe have internationally-focused websites for Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands, Spain, and the United Kingdom. Net sales generated from these websites, as well as most of the related expenses directly incurred from those operations, are denominated in local functional currencies. The functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support these websites is generally the same as the local currency. Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars at period-end foreign exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated at average rates prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments are included in "Accumulated other comprehensive loss," a separate component of stockholders' equity, and in the "Foreign currency effect on cash and cash equivalents," on our consolidated statements of cash flows. Transaction gains and losses including intercompany transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity involved are included in "Other income (expense), net" on our consolidated statements of operations. In connection with the settlement and remeasurement of intercompany balances, we recorded a loss of $215 million in 2015 and recorded gains of $62 million and $202 million in 2016 and 2017.Accounting Pronouncements Recently AdoptedIn July 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued an Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") modifying the accounting for inventory. Under this ASU, the measurement principle for inventory changed from lower of cost or market value to lower of cost and net realizable value. The ASU defines net realizable value as the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. The ASU is applicable to inventory that is accounted for under the first-in, first-out method. We adopted this ASU in Q1 2017 with no material impact to our consolidated financial statements.In March 2016, the FASB issued an ASU amending the accounting for stock-based compensation and requiring excess tax benefits and deficiencies to be recognized as a component of income tax expense rather than equity. The inclusion of excess tax benefits and deficiencies as a component of our income tax expense will increase volatility within our provision for income taxes as the amount of excess tax benefits or deficiencies from stock-based compensation awards depends on our stock price at the date the awards vest. This guidance also requires excess tax benefits to be presented as an operating activity on the statement of cash flows and allows an entity to make an accounting policy election to either estimate expected forfeitures or to account for them as they occur. We adopted this ASU in Q1 2017 by recording the cumulative impact through an increase in retained earnings of $687 million, and we will continue to estimate expected forfeitures. Additionally, we retrospectively adjusted our consolidated statements of cash flows to reclassify excess tax benefits of $119 million and $829 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 and 2016 from financing activities to operating activities. Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet AdoptedIn May 2014, the FASB issued an ASU amending revenue recognition guidance and requiring more detailed disclosures to enable users of financial statements to understand the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. We will adopt this ASU on January 1, 2018 with a cumulative adjustment that will increase retained earnings by approximately $650 million rather than retrospectively adjusting prior periods. The cumulative adjustment will primarily relate to unredeemed gift cards. We will begin to recognize revenue from estimated unredeemed gift cards over the expected customer redemption period, which is substantially within nine months, rather than waiting until gift cards expire or when the likelihood of redemption becomes remote, generally two years from the date of issuance. Other changes relate to Amazon-branded electronic devices sold through retailers, which will be recognized upon sale to the retailer rather than to end customers. We also will change how we recognize and classify Amazon Prime memberships, which are currently considered arrangements with multiple deliverables that are allocated among products sales and service sales. Upon adoption of the ASU, Amazon Prime memberships will be accounted for as a single performance obligation recognized ratably over the membership period and will be classified as service sales. Other changes that we have identified relate primarily to the presentation of revenue. Certain advertising services will be classified as revenue rather than a reduction in cost of sales, and sales of apps, in-app content, and certain digital media content will primarily be presented on a net basis. In January 2016, the FASB issued an ASU which updates certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments. Under this ASU, certain equity investments will be measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income. The ASU is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017. We do not expect adoption of the ASU in Q1 2018 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.In February 2016, the FASB issued an ASU amending the accounting for leases. The new guidance requires the recognition of lease assets and liabilities for operating leases with terms of more than 12 months, in addition to those currently recorded, on our consolidated balance sheets. Presentation of leases within the consolidated statements of operations and 49Table of Contentsconsolidated statements of cash flows will be generally consistent with the current lease accounting guidance. The ASU is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. We plan to adopt this ASU beginning in Q1 2019. We are currently evaluating the impact and expect the ASU will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements, primarily to the consolidated balance sheets and related disclosures.In October 2016, the FASB issued an ASU amending the accounting for income taxes. The new guidance requires the recognition of the income tax consequences of an intercompany asset transfer, other than transfers of inventory, when the transfer occurs. For intercompany transfers of inventory, the income tax effects will continue to be deferred until the inventory has been sold to a third party. The ASU is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted. We will adopt this ASU beginning in Q1 2018. We estimate the ASU will have an impact of approximately $250 million on our consolidated financial statements, including retained earnings and deferred taxes. This estimate takes into account valuation allowances that we anticipate recording against certain material deferred tax assets. Any change in our assessment of the likelihood of our ability to realize deferred tax assets will be reflected as an income tax benefit during the quarter of such change.In November 2016, the FASB issued an ASU amending the presentation of restricted cash within the statement of cash flows. The new guidance requires that restricted cash be included within cash and cash equivalents on the statement of cash flows. The ASU is effective retrospectively for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted. We will adopt this ASU beginning in Q1 2018.Note 2--CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND MARKETABLE SECURITIESAs of December 31, 2016 and 2017, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities primarily consisted of cash, U.S. and foreign government and agency securities, AAA-rated money market funds, and other investment grade securities. Cash equivalents and marketable securities are recorded at fair value. The following tables summarize, by major security type, our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis and are categorized using the fair value hierarchy (in millions): 50Table of Contents___________________The following table summarizes gross gains and gross losses realized on sales of available-for-sale marketable securities (in millions):The following table summarizes the contractual maturities of our cash equivalents and marketable fixed-income securities as of December 31, 2017 (in millions):Actual maturities may differ from the contractual maturities because borrowers may have certain prepayment conditions.51Table of ContentsNote 3--PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENTProperty and equipment, at cost, consisted of the following (in millions): ___________________Depreciation expense on property and equipment was $4.9 billion, $6.4 billion, and $8.8 billion which includes amortization of property and equipment acquired under capital leases of $2.7 billion, $3.8 billion, and $5.4 billion for 2015, 2016, and 2017. Gross assets recorded under capital leases were $17.0 billion and $26.4 billion as of December 31, 2016 and 2017. Accumulated depreciation associated with capital leases was $8.5 billion and $13.4 billion as of December 31, 2016 and 2017.We capitalize construction in progress and record a corresponding long-term liability for build-to-suit lease agreements where we are considered the owner, for accounting purposes, during the construction period. For buildings under build-to-suit lease arrangements where we have taken occupancy, which do not qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance, we determined that we continue to be the deemed owner of these buildings. This is principally due to our significant investment in tenant improvements. As a result, the buildings are being depreciated over the shorter of their useful lives or the related leases' terms. Additionally, certain build-to-suit lease arrangements and finance leases provide purchase options. Upon occupancy, the long-term construction obligations are considered long-term finance lease obligations with amounts payable during the next 12 months recorded as "Accrued expenses and other." Gross assets remaining under finance leases were $2.9 billion and $5.4 billion as of December 31, 2016 and 2017. Accumulated depreciation associated with finance leases was $361 million and $635 million as of December 31, 2016 and 2017.Note 4--ACQUISITIONS, GOODWILL, AND ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETSAcquisition Activity During 2015 and 2016, we acquired certain companies for an aggregate purchase price of $690 million and $103 million. The primary reason for these acquisitions, none of which were individually material to our consolidated financial statements, was to acquire technologies and know-how to enable Amazon to serve customers more effectively.On May 12, 2017, we acquired Souq Group Ltd. ("Souq"), an e-commerce company, for approximately $583 million, net of cash acquired, and on August 28, 2017, we acquired Whole Foods Market, a grocery store chain, for approximately $13.2 billion, net of cash acquired. Both acquisitions are intended to expand our retail presence. During 2017, we also acquired certain other companies for an aggregate purchase price of $204 million. The primary reason for our other 2017 acquisitions was to acquire technologies and know-how to enable Amazon to serve customers more effectively.Acquisition-related costs were expensed as incurred and were not significant. The valuation of certain assets and liabilities in the Whole Foods Market acquisition is preliminary and subject to change.52Table of ContentsPurchase Price AllocationThe aggregate purchase price of the 2015 and 2016 acquisitions, and the Whole Foods Market and other 2017 acquisitions, which primarily includes the acquisition of Souq, was allocated as follows (in millions): ___________________The fair value of assumed stock options, estimated using the Black-Scholes model, and restricted stock units of $9 million, $0 million, and $0 million for 2015, 2016, and 2017 will be expensed over the remaining service period. We determined the estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets acquired primarily by using the income approach. These assets are included within "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets and are being amortized to operating expenses on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.53Table of ContentsPro Forma Financial Information - 2017 Acquisition Activity (unaudited)The acquired companies were consolidated into our financial statements starting on their respective acquisition dates. The aggregate net sales and operating loss of Whole Foods Market consolidated into our financial statements since the date of acquisition was $5.8 billion and $(24) million for the year ended December 31, 2017. The aggregate net sales and operating loss of other acquisitions consolidated into our financial statements since the respective dates of acquisition was $482 million and $(142) million for the year ended December 31, 2017. The following financial information, which excludes certain acquired companies for which the pro forma impact is not meaningful, presents our results as if the acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2017 had occurred on January 1, 2016 (in millions): These pro forma results are based on estimates and assumptions, which we believe are reasonable. They are not the results that would have been realized had the acquisitions actually occurred on January 1, 2016 and are not necessarily indicative of our consolidated results of operations in future periods. The pro forma results include adjustments related to purchase accounting, primarily interest expense related to the proceeds from the issuance of the August 2017 Notes used in connection with the acquisition of Whole Foods Market, depreciation of property and equipment, and amortization of intangible assets.GoodwillThe goodwill of the acquired companies is primarily related to expected improvements in technology performance and functionality, as well as sales growth from future product and service offerings and new customers, together with certain intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition. The goodwill of the acquired companies is generally not deductible for tax purposes. The following summarizes our goodwill activity in 2016 and 2017 by segment (in millions): ___________________54Table of ContentsIntangible AssetsAcquired intangible assets, included within "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets, consist of the following (in millions): ___________________Amortization expense for acquired intangibles was $270 million, $287 million, and $366 million in 2015, 2016, and 2017. Expected future amortization expense of acquired intangible assets as of December 31, 2017 is as follows (in millions): 55Table of ContentsNote 5--LONG-TERM DEBTAs of December 31, 2017, we had $24.3 billion of unsecured senior notes outstanding (the "Notes"), including $17.0 billion of notes issued and assumed in connection with our August 2017 acquisition of Whole Foods Market. As of December 31, 2016 and 2017, the net unamortized discount on the Notes was $90 million and $99 million. We also have other long-term debt with a carrying amount, including the current portion and borrowings under our credit facility, of $588 million and $692 million as of December 31, 2016 and 2017. The face value of our total long-term debt obligations is as follows (in millions):_____________________________Interest on the Notes issued in 2012 is payable semi-annually in arrears in May and November. Interest on the Notes issued in 2014 is payable semi-annually in arrears in June and December. Interest on the Notes issued in 2017 is payable semi-annually in arrears in February and August. Interest on the 2025 Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears in June and December. We may redeem the Notes at any time in whole, or from time to time, in part at specified redemption prices. We are not subject to any financial covenants under the Notes. The proceeds from the November 2012 and December 2014 Notes were used for general corporate purposes. The proceeds from the August 2017 Notes were used to fund the consideration for the acquisition of Whole Foods Market, to repay the 1.200% Notes due November 2017, and for general corporate purposes. The estimated fair value of the Notes was approximately $8.7 billion and $25.7 billion as of December 31, 2016 and 2017, which is based on quoted prices for our debt as of those dates.In October 2016, we entered into a $500 million secured revolving credit facility with a lender that is secured by certain seller receivables, which we subsequently increased to $600 million and may from time to time increase in the future subject to lender approval (the "Credit Facility"). The Credit Facility is available for a term of three years, bears interest at the London interbank offered rate ("LIBOR") plus 1.65%, and has a commitment fee of 0.50% on the undrawn portion. There was $495 56Table of Contentsmillion and $592 million of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2016 and 2017, which had a weighted-average interest rate of 2.3% and 2.7% as of December 31, 2016 and 2017. As of December 31, 2017, we have pledged $686 million of our cash and seller receivables as collateral for debt related to our Credit Facility. The estimated fair value of the Credit Facility, which is based on Level 2 inputs, approximated its carrying value as of December 31, 2016 and 2017.In December 2017, we conducted an exchange offer related to the $1.0 billion 5.200% senior notes due 2025 assumed in our acquisition of Whole Foods Market. In connection with the exchange offer, we issued $872 million aggregate principal amount of new Amazon 5.200% senior notes due 2025, and $128 million aggregate principal amount of Whole Foods Market's previously issued notes remained outstanding. We also amended the Whole Foods Market indenture to eliminate substantially all the restrictive covenants and certain events of default from the remaining Whole Foods Market notes. The other debt, including the current portion, had a weighted-average interest rate of 3.4% and 5.8% as of December 31, 2016 and 2017. We used the net proceeds from the issuance of this debt primarily to fund certain business operations. The estimated fair value of the other long-term debt, which is based on Level 2 inputs, approximated its carrying value as of December 31, 2016 and 2017.As of December 31, 2017, future principal payments for our total debt were as follows (in millions): In May 2016, we entered into an unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Credit Agreement") with a syndicate of lenders that provides us with a borrowing capacity of up to $3.0 billion. The Credit Agreement has a term of three years, but it may be extended for up to three additional one-year terms if approved by the lenders. The initial interest rate applicable to outstanding balances under the Credit Agreement is LIBOR plus 0.60%, with a commitment fee of 0.05% on the undrawn portion of the credit facility, under our current credit ratings. If our credit ratings are downgraded these rates could increase to as much as LIBOR plus 1.00% and 0.09%, respectively. There were no borrowings outstanding under the credit agreements as of December 31, 2016 and 2017.57Table of ContentsNote 6--OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIESOur other long-term liabilities are summarized as follows (in millions):Capital and Finance LeasesCertain of our equipment, primarily related to technology infrastructure, and buildings have been acquired under capital leases. Long-term capital lease obligations are as follows (in millions):We continue to be the deemed owner after occupancy of certain facilities that were constructed as build-to-suit lease arrangements and previously reflected as "Construction liabilities." As such, these arrangements are accounted for as finance leases. Long-term finance lease obligations are as follows (in millions):Construction LiabilitiesWe capitalize construction in progress and record a corresponding long-term liability for build-to-suit lease agreements where we are considered the owner during the construction period for accounting purposes. These liabilities primarily relate to our corporate buildings and fulfillment, sortation, delivery, and data centers. Tax ContingenciesWe have recorded reserves for tax contingencies, inclusive of accrued interest and penalties, for U.S. and foreign income taxes. These reserves primarily relate to transfer pricing, research and development credits, and state income taxes, and are presented net of offsetting deferred tax assets related to net operating losses and tax credits. See "Note 10--Income Taxes" for discussion of tax contingencies.58Table of ContentsNote 7--COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIESCommitmentsWe have entered into non-cancellable operating, capital, and finance leases for equipment and office, fulfillment, sortation, delivery, data center, physical store, and renewable energy facilities. Rental expense under operating lease agreements was $1.1 billion, $1.4 billion, and $2.2 billion for 2015, 2016, and 2017.The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders for purchases that support normal operations and are generally cancellable, as of December 31, 2017 (in millions):___________________Pledged AssetsAs of December 31, 2016 and 2017, we have pledged or otherwise restricted $715 million and $1.4 billion of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, and certain property and equipment as collateral for real estate leases, workers' compensation obligations, amounts due to third-party sellers in certain jurisdictions, debt, and standby and trade letters of credit.SuppliersDuring 2017, no vendor accounted for 10% or more of our purchases. We generally do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with our vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits.Other ContingenciesIn 2016, we determined that we processed and delivered orders of consumer products for certain individuals and entities located outside Iran covered by the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act or other United States sanctions and export control laws. The consumer products included books, music, other media, apparel, home and kitchen, health and beauty, jewelry, office, consumer electronics, software, lawn and patio, grocery, and automotive products. Our review is ongoing and we have voluntarily reported these orders to the United States Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control and the United States Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security. We intend to cooperate fully with OFAC and BIS 59Table of Contentswith respect to their review, which may result in the imposition of penalties. For additional information, see Item 9B of Part II, "Other Information -- Disclosure Pursuant to Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act."We are subject to claims related to various indirect taxes (such as sales, value added, consumption, service, and similar taxes), including in jurisdictions in which we already collect and remit such taxes. If the relevant taxing authorities were successfully to pursue these claims, we could be subject to significant additional tax liabilities. For example, in June 2017, the State of South Carolina issued an assessment for uncollected sales and use taxes for the period from January 2016 to March 2016, including interest and penalties. South Carolina is alleging that we should have collected sales and use taxes on transactions by our third-party sellers. We believe the assessment is without merit. If South Carolina or other states were successfully to seek additional adjustments of a similar nature, we could be subject to significant additional tax liabilities. We intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.Legal ProceedingsThe Company is involved from time to time in claims, proceedings, and litigation, including the following:In November 2007, an Austrian copyright collection society, Austro-Mechana, filed lawsuits against Amazon.com International Sales, Inc., Amazon EU S.a r.l., Amazon.de GmbH, Amazon.com GmbH, and Amazon Logistik in the Commercial Court of Vienna, Austria and in the District Court of Munich, Germany seeking to collect a tariff on blank digital media sold by our EU-based retail websites to customers located in Austria. In July 2008, the German court stayed the German case pending a final decision in the Austrian case. In July 2010, the Austrian court ruled in favor of Austro-Mechana and ordered us to report all sales of products to which the tariff potentially applies for a determination of damages. We contested Austro-Mechana's claim and in September 2010 commenced an appeal in the Commercial Court of Vienna. We lost this appeal and in March 2011 commenced an appeal in the Supreme Court of Austria. In October 2011, the Austrian Supreme Court referred the case to the European Court of Justice ("ECJ"). In July 2013, the ECJ ruled that EU law does not preclude application of the tariff where certain conditions are met and directed the case back to the Austrian Supreme Court for further proceedings. In October 2013, the Austrian Supreme Court referred the case back to the Commercial Court of Vienna for further fact finding to determine whether the tariff on blank digital media meets the conditions set by the ECJ. In August 2015, the Commercial Court of Vienna ruled that the Austrian tariff regime does not meet the conditions the ECJ set and dismissed Austro-Mechana's claims. In September 2015, Austro-Mechana appealed that judgment to the Higher Commercial Court of Vienna. In December 2015, the Higher Commercial Court of Vienna confirmed that the Austrian tariff regime does not meet the conditions the ECJ set and dismissed Austro-Mechana's appeal. In February 2016, Austro-Mechana appealed that judgment to the Austrian Supreme Court. In March 2017, the Austrian Supreme Court ruled in favor of Austro-Mechana and referred the case back to the Commercial Court of Vienna for further proceedings. A number of additional actions have been filed making similar allegations. In December 2012, a German copyright collection society, Zentralstelle fur private Uberspielungsrechte ("ZPU"), filed a complaint against Amazon EU S.a r.l., Amazon Media EU S.a r.l., Amazon Services Europe S.a r.l., Amazon Payments Europe SCA, Amazon Europe Holding Technologies SCS, and Amazon Eurasia Holdings S.a r.l. in the District Court of Luxembourg seeking to collect a tariff on blank digital media sold by the Amazon.de retail website to customers located in Germany. In January 2013, a Belgian copyright collection society, AUVIBEL, filed a complaint against Amazon EU S.a r.l. in the Court of First Instance of Brussels, Belgium, seeking to collect a tariff on blank digital media sold by the Amazon.fr retail website to customers located in Belgium. In November 2013, the Belgian court ruled in favor of AUVIBEL and ordered us to report all sales of products to which the tariff potentially applies for a determination of damages. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these matters.Beginning in August 2013, a number of complaints were filed alleging, among other things, that Amazon.com, Inc. and several of its subsidiaries failed to compensate hourly workers for time spent waiting in security lines and otherwise violated federal and state wage and hour statutes and common law. In August 2013, Busk v. Integrity Staffing Solutions, Inc. and Amazon.com, Inc. was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Nevada, and Vance v. Amazon.com, Inc., Zappos.com Inc., another affiliate of Amazon.com, Inc., and Kelly Services, Inc. was filed in the United States District Court for the Western District of Kentucky. In September 2013, Allison v. Amazon.com, Inc. and Integrity Staffing Solutions, Inc. was filed in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington, and Johnson v. Amazon.com, Inc. and an affiliate of Amazon.com, Inc. was filed in the United States District Court for the Western District of Kentucky. In October 2013, Davis v. Amazon.com, Inc., an affiliate of Amazon.com, Inc., and Integrity Staffing Solutions, Inc. was filed in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee. The plaintiffs variously purport to represent a nationwide class of certain current and former employees under the Fair Labor Standards Act and/or state-law-based subclasses for certain current and former employees in states including Arizona, California, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Kentucky, Washington, and Nevada, and one complaint asserts nationwide breach of contract and unjust enrichment claims. The complaints seek an unspecified amount of damages, interest, injunctive relief, and attorneys' fees. We have been named in several other similar cases. In December 2014, the Supreme Court ruled in Busk that time spent waiting for and undergoing security screening is not compensable working time under the federal wage and hour statute. In February 2015, the courts in those actions alleging only federal law claims entered stipulated orders dismissing those actions without prejudice. In March 2016, the United States 60Table of ContentsDistrict Court for the Western District of Kentucky dismissed the Vance case with prejudice. In April 2016, the plaintiffs appealed the district court's judgment to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. In March 2017, the court of appeals affirmed the district court's decision. In June 2017, the United States District Court for the Western District of Kentucky dismissed the Busk and Saldana cases with prejudice. We dispute any remaining allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these matters.In March 2014, Kaavo, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon Web Services, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon Web Services' Elastic Beanstalk and CloudFormation infringe U.S. Patent No. 8,271,974, entitled "Cloud Computing Lifecycle Management For N-Tier Applications." The complaint seeks injunctive relief, an unspecified amount of damages, costs, and interest. In July 2015, Kaavo Inc. filed another complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. and Amazon Web Services, Inc. in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The 2015 complaint alleges, among other things, that CloudFormation infringes U.S. Patent No. 9,043,751, entitled "Methods And Devices For Managing A Cloud Computing Environment." The 2015 complaint seeks injunctive relief, an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, attorneys' fees, costs, and interest. In September 2017, the 2015 case was stayed pending resolution of a review petition we filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these matters.In December 2014, Smartflash LLC and Smartflash Technologies Limited filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc., Amazon.com, LLC, AMZN Mobile, LLC, Amazon Web Services, Inc. and Audible, Inc. for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that Amazon Appstore, Amazon Instant Video, Amazon Music, Audible Audiobooks, the Amazon Mobile Ad Network, certain Kindle and Fire devices, Kindle e-bookstore, Amazon's proprietary Android operating system, and the servers involved in operating Amazon Appstore, Amazon Instant Video, Amazon Music, the Fire TV app, Audible Audiobooks, Cloud Drive, Cloud Player, Amazon Web Services, and Amazon Mobile Ad Network infringe seven related U.S. Patents: Nos. 7,334,720; 7,942,317; 8,033,458; 8,061,598; 8,118,221; 8,336,772; and 8,794,516, all entitled "Data Storage and Access Systems." The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, an injunction, enhanced damages, attorneys' fees, costs, and interest. In May 2015, the case was stayed until further notice. In March 2017, in an unrelated lawsuit, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit entered judgment invalidating all asserted claims of U.S. Patent Nos. 7,334,720; 8,118,221; and 8,336,772. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.In March 2015, Zitovault, LLC filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc., Amazon.com, LLC, Amazon Web Services, Inc., and Amazon Web Services, LLC for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges that Elastic Compute Cloud, Virtual Private Cloud, Elastic Load Balancing, Auto-Scaling, and Elastic Beanstalk infringe U.S. Patent No. 6,484,257, entitled "System and Method for Maintaining N Number of Simultaneous Cryptographic Sessions Using a Distributed Computing Environment." The complaint seeks injunctive relief, an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, attorneys' fees, costs, and interest. In January 2016, the case was transferred to the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington. In June 2016, the case was stayed pending resolution of a review petition we filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.Beginning in September 2015, two cases have been filed alleging that Amazon violated the Fair Credit Reporting Act with regard to processes undertaken to perform criminal background checks on candidates for employment and employees. In September 2015, Hargrett v. Amazon.com LLC and Amazon.comdedc, LLC was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida. In August 2017, Mathis v. Amazon.comdedc, LLC and Accurate Background, LLC was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida. The plaintiffs variously purport to represent a nationwide class of certain candidates for employment and employees who were subject to a background check, and allege that Amazon failed either to provide proper disclosures before obtaining background checks or to provide appropriate notice before using background check information in employment decisions. The complaints seek an unspecified amount of statutory damages, punitive damages, costs, and attorneys' fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in these matters.In November 2015, Eolas Technologies, Inc. filed a complaint against Amazon.com, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the use of "interactive features" on , including "search suggestions and search results," infringes U.S. Patent No. 9,195,507, entitled "Distributed Hypermedia Method and System for Automatically Invoking External Application Providing Interaction and Display of Embedded Objects Within A Hypermedia Document." The complaint sought a judgment of infringement together with costs and attorneys' fees. In February 2016, Eolas filed an amended complaint seeking, among other things, an unspecified amount of damages. In February 2017, Eolas alleged in its damages report that in the event of a finding of liability Amazon could be subject to $130-$250 million in damages. In April 2017, the case was transferred to the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.61Table of ContentsIn October 2017, SRC Labs, LLC and Saint Regis Mohawk Tribe filed a complaint for patent infringement against Amazon Web Services, Inc., Amazon.com, Inc., and VADATA, Inc. in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia. The complaint alleges, among other things, that certain AWS EC2 Instances infringe U.S. Patent Nos. 6,434,687, entitled "System and method for accelerating web site access and processing utilizing a computer system incorporating reconfigurable processors operating under a single operating system image"; 7,149,867, entitled "System and method of enhancing efficiency and utilization of memory bandwidth in reconfigurable hardware"; 7,225,324 and 7,620,800, both entitled "Multi-adaptive processing systems and techniques for enhancing parallelism and performance of computational functions"; and 9,153,311, entitled "System and method for retaining DRAM data when reprogramming reconfigurable devices with DRAM memory controllers." The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of damages, enhanced damages, interest, and a compulsory on-going royalty. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter.The outcomes of our legal proceedings and other contingencies are inherently unpredictable, subject to significant uncertainties, and could be material to our operating results and cash flows for a particular period. In addition, for the matters disclosed above that do not include an estimate of the amount of loss or range of losses, such an estimate is not possible or is immaterial, and we may be unable to estimate the possible loss or range of losses that could potentially result from the application of non-monetary remedies.See also "Note 10--Income Taxes."Note 8--STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITYPreferred StockWe have authorized 500 million shares of $0.01 par value preferred stock. No preferred stock was outstanding for any period presented.Common StockCommon shares outstanding plus shares underlying outstanding stock awards totaled 490 million, 497 million, and 504 million, as of December 31, 2015, 2016, and 2017. These totals include all vested and unvested stock awards outstanding, including those awards we estimate will be forfeited.Stock Repurchase ActivityIn February 2016, the Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $5.0 billion of our common stock, with no fixed expiration. This stock repurchase authorization replaced the previous $2.0 billion stock repurchase authorization, approved by the Board of Directors in 2010. There were no repurchases of common stock in 2015, 2016, or 2017.Stock Award PlansEmployees vest in restricted stock unit awards and stock options over the corresponding service term, generally between two and five years.62Table of ContentsStock Award ActivityStock options outstanding, which were primarily obtained through acquisitions, totaled 0.2 million, 0.1 million, and 0.1 million, as of December 31, 2015, 2016, and 2017. Stock-based compensation expense is as follows (in millions):___________________The following table summarizes our restricted stock unit activity (in millions):Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units as of December 31, 2017, is as follows (in millions):As of December 31, 2017, there was $6.4 billion of net unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock-based compensation arrangements. This compensation is recognized on an accelerated basis with approximately half of the compensation expected to be expensed in the next twelve months, and has a weighted-average recognition period of 1.1 years. The estimated forfeiture rate as of December 31, 2015, 2016, and 2017 was 28%. Changes in our estimates and assumptions relating to forfeitures may cause us to realize material changes in stock-based compensation expense in the future. During 2015, 2016, and 2017, the fair value of restricted stock units that vested was $2.7 billion, $4.3 billion, and $6.8 billion.63Table of ContentsAs matching contributions under our 401(k) savings plan, we granted 0.1 million shares of common stock in 2016 and 2017. Shares granted as matching contributions under our 401(k) plan are included in outstanding common stock when issued, and recorded as stock-based compensation expense.Common Stock Available for Future IssuanceAs of December 31, 2017, common stock available for future issuance to employees is 116 million shares.Note 9--ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSSChanges in the composition of accumulated other comprehensive loss for 2015, 2016, and 2017 are as follows (in millions):Amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive loss are recorded net of their related income tax effects.Note 10--INCOME TAXESIn 2015, 2016, and 2017, we recorded net tax provisions of $950 million, $1.4 billion, and $769 million. We have tax benefits relating to excess stock-based compensation deductions and accelerated depreciation deductions that are being utilized to reduce our U.S. taxable income. Cash taxes paid, net of refunds, were $273 million, $412 million, and $957 million for 2015, 2016, and 2017.The 2017 Tax Act was signed into law on December 22, 2017. The 2017 Tax Act significantly revises the U.S. corporate income tax by, among other things, lowering the statutory corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, eliminating certain deductions, imposing a mandatory one-time tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, introducing new tax regimes, and changing how foreign earnings are subject to U.S. tax. The 2017 Tax Act also enhanced and extended through 2026 the option to claim accelerated depreciation deductions on qualified property. We have not completed our determination of the accounting implications of the 2017 Tax Act on our tax accruals. However, we have reasonably estimated the effects of the 2017 Tax Act and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements as of December 31, 2017. We recorded a provisional tax benefit for the impact of the 2017 Tax Act of approximately $789 million. This amount is primarily comprised of the remeasurement of federal net deferred tax liabilities resulting from the permanent reduction in the U.S. statutory corporate tax rate to 21% from 35%, after taking into account the mandatory one-time tax on the accumulated earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. The amount of this one-time tax is not material. As we complete our analysis of the 2017 Tax Act, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts. Those adjustments may materially impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made. 64Table of ContentsThe components of the provision for income taxes, net are as follows (in millions):U.S. and international components of income before income taxes are as follows (in millions):The items accounting for differences between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate and the provision recorded for income taxes are as follows (in millions):___________________Our provision for income taxes in 2016 was higher than in 2015 primarily due to an increase in U.S. pre-tax income, partially offset by an increase in the proportion of foreign losses for which we may realize a tax benefit, an increase in tax amortization deductions, and a decline in the proportion of nondeductible expenses. We have recorded valuation allowances against the deferred tax assets associated with losses for which we may not realize a related tax benefit. Our provision for income taxes in 2017 was lower than in 2016 primarily due to excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation and the provisional favorable effect of the 2017 Tax Act, partially offset by an increase in the proportion of foreign losses for which we may not realize a tax benefit and audit-related developments.We regularly assess whether it is more likely than not that we will realize our deferred tax assets in each taxing jurisdiction in which we operate. In performing this assessment with respect to each jurisdiction, we review all available evidence, including recent cumulative loss experience and expectations of future earnings, capital gains, and investment in such jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. In Q2 2017, we 65Table of Contentsrecognized an estimated charge to tax expense of $600 million to record a valuation allowance against the net deferred tax assets in Luxembourg.The 2017 Tax Act includes a mandatory one-time tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, and as a result, all previously unremitted earnings for which no U.S. deferred tax liability had been accrued have now been subject to U.S. tax. Notwithstanding the U.S. taxation of these amounts, we intend to continue to invest most or all of these earnings, as well as our capital in these subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the U.S. and do not expect to incur any significant, additional taxes related to such amounts.Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in millions): ___________________As of December 31, 2017, our federal, foreign, and state net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $226 million, $8.0 billion, and $858 million. The federal, foreign, and state net operating loss carryforwards are subject to limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and applicable foreign and state tax law. If not utilized, a portion of the federal, foreign, and state net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2023, 2018, and 2019, respectively. As of December 31, 2017, our tax credit carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately $1.1 billion. If not utilized, a portion of the tax credit carryforwards will begin to expire in 2021. As of December 31, 2017, our federal capital loss carryforwards for income tax purposes was approximately $359 million. If not utilized, a portion of the capital loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2019.66Table of ContentsTax ContingenciesWe are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties based on estimates of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. These reserves are established when we believe that certain positions might be challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the outcome of tax audits. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate.The reconciliation of our tax contingencies is as follows (in millions): ___________________As of December 31, 2016 and 2017, we had accrued interest and penalties, net of federal income tax benefit, related to tax contingencies of $67 million and $107 million. Interest and penalties, net of federal income tax benefit, recognized for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2016, and 2017 was $18 million, $9 million, and $40 million.We are under examination, or may be subject to examination, by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") for the calendar year 2005 and thereafter. These examinations may lead to ordinary course adjustments or proposed adjustments to our taxes or our net operating losses with respect to years under examination as well as subsequent periods. As previously disclosed, we have received Notices of Proposed Adjustment ("NOPAs") from the IRS for transactions undertaken in the 2005 and 2006 calendar years relating to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries. The IRS is seeking to increase our U.S. taxable income by an amount that would result in additional federal tax of approximately $1.5 billion, subject to interest. On March 23, 2017, the U.S. Tax Court issued its decision regarding the issues raised in the IRS NOPAs. The Tax Court rejected the approach from the IRS NOPAs in determining transfer pricing adjustments in 2005 and 2006 for the transactions undertaken with our foreign subsidiaries and adopted, with adjustments, our suggested approach. On September 29, 2017, the IRS filed a notice of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. We will continue to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. If the Tax Court decision were reversed on appeal or if the IRS were to successfully assert transfer pricing adjustments of a similar nature to the NOPAs for transactions in subsequent years, we could be subject to significant additional tax liabilities. Certain of our subsidiaries were under examination or investigation by the French Tax Administration ("FTA") for calendar year 2006 and thereafter. In September 2012, we received proposed tax assessment notices for calendar years 2006 through 2010 relating to the allocation of income between foreign jurisdictions. In June 2015, we received final tax collection notices for these years assessing additional French taxes, interest, and penalties through September 2012. In December 2017, we settled this dispute with the FTA and included the impact thereof within our financial statements. In addition, in October 2014, the European Commission opened a formal investigation to examine whether decisions by the tax authorities in Luxembourg with regard to the corporate income tax paid by certain of our subsidiaries comply with European Union rules on state aid. On October 4, 2017, the European Commission announced its decision that determinations by the tax authorities in Luxembourg did not comply with European Union rules on state aid. This decision orders Luxembourg to calculate and recover additional taxes from us for the period May 2006 through June 2014. We believe this decision to be without merit and will consider our legal options, including an appeal. In December 2017, Luxembourg appealed the European Commission's decision. While the European Commission announced an estimated recovery amount of approximately EUR250 million, plus interest, the actual amount of additional taxes subject to recovery is to be calculated by the Luxembourg tax authorities in accordance with the European Commission's guidance. Once the recovery amount is computed by Luxembourg, we anticipate funding it, including interest, into escrow, where it will remain pending conclusion of all appeals. We may be required to fund into escrow an amount in excess of the estimated recovery amount announced by the European Commission. We are also subject to taxation in various states and other foreign jurisdictions including Canada, China, Germany, India, Japan, 67Table of ContentsLuxembourg, and the United Kingdom. We are under, or may be subject to, audit or examination and additional assessments by the relevant authorities in respect of these particular jurisdictions primarily for 2008 and thereafter.We expect the total amount of tax contingencies will grow in 2018. In addition, changes in state, federal, and foreign tax laws may increase our tax contingencies. The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain, and the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ from the amounts accrued. It is reasonably possible that within the next 12 months we will receive additional assessments by various tax authorities or possibly reach resolution of income tax examinations in one or more jurisdictions. These assessments or settlements could result in changes to our contingencies related to positions on tax filings in years through 2017. The actual amount of any change could vary significantly depending on the ultimate timing and nature of any settlements. We cannot currently provide an estimate of the range of possible outcomes.Note 11--SEGMENT INFORMATIONWe have organized our operations into three segments: North America, International, and AWS. We allocate to segment results the operating expenses "Fulfillment," "Marketing," "Technology and content," and "General and administrative" based on usage, which is generally reflected in the segment in which the costs are incurred. The majority of technology infrastructure costs are allocated to the AWS segment based on usage. The majority of the remaining non-infrastructure technology costs are incurred in the U.S. and are allocated to our North America segment. In Q1 2017, we combined stock-based compensation and "Other operating expense, net" with operating expenses in our presentation of segment results. The results of Whole Foods Market are included in our North America and International segments based on physical location. There are no internal revenue transactions between our reportable segments. These segments reflect the way our chief operating decision maker evaluates the Company's business performance and manages its operations.North AmericaThe North America segment primarily consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through North America-focused websites such as , , and . This segment includes export sales from these websites.InternationalThe International segment primarily consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through internationally-focused websites such as , , , , , , , , , , and . This segment includes export sales from these internationally-focused websites (including export sales from these sites to customers in the U.S., Mexico, and Canada), but excludes export sales from our North American websites.AWSThe AWS segment consists of amounts earned from global sales of compute, storage, database, and other service offerings for start-ups, enterprises, government agencies, and academic institutions.68Table of ContentsInformation on reportable segments and reconciliation to consolidated net income (loss) is as follows (in millions):Net sales by groups of similar products and services is as follows (in millions):___________________69Table of ContentsNet sales generated from our internationally-focused websites are denominated in local functional currencies. Revenues are translated at average rates prevailing throughout the period. Net sales attributed to countries that represent a significant portion of consolidated net sales are as follows (in millions):Total segment assets exclude corporate assets, such as cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, other long-term investments, corporate facilities, goodwill and other acquired intangible assets, capitalized internal-use software and website development costs, and tax assets. Technology infrastructure assets are allocated among the segments based on usage, with the majority allocated to the AWS segment. Total segment assets reconciled to consolidated amounts are as follows (in millions):___________________70Table of ContentsProperty and equipment, net by segment is as follows (in millions):Total net additions to property and equipment by segment are as follows (in millions):___________________U.S. property and equipment, net was $16.8 billion, $22.0 billion, and $35.5 billion, in 2015, 2016, and 2017, and rest of world property and equipment, net was $5.0 billion, $7.1 billion, and $13.4 billion in 2015, 2016, and 2017. Except for the U.S., property and equipment, net, in any single country was less than 10% of consolidated property and equipment, net.Depreciation expense, including amortization of capitalized internal-use software and website development costs and other corporate property and equipment depreciation expense, are allocated to all segments based on usage. Total depreciation expense, by segment, is as follows (in millions):71Note 12--QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED)The following tables contain selected unaudited statement of operations information for each quarter of 2016 and 2017. The following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the information for the periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Our business is affected by seasonality, which historically has resulted in higher sales volume during our fourth quarter. Unaudited quarterly results are as follows (in millions, except per share data): ___________________72Table of ContentsNone.Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures We carried out an evaluation required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "1934 Act"), under the supervision and with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the 1934 Act, as of December 31, 2017. Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that, as of December 31, 2017, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the 1934 Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and to provide reasonable assurance that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the 1934 Act. Management has assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017 based on criteria established in Internal Control--Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. As a result of this assessment, management concluded that, as of December 31, 2017, our internal control over financial reporting was effective in providing reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Ernst & Young has independently assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and its report is included below. Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2017 that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Limitations on Controls Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting are designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives as specified above. Management does not expect, however, that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all error and fraud. Any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, is based upon certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. Further, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. 73Table of ContentsReport of Independent Registered Public Accounting FirmThe Board of Directors and Shareholders Amazon.com, Inc. Opinion on Internal Controls Over Financial ReportingWe have audited Amazon.com, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on criteria established in Internal Control--Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, Amazon.com, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on the COSO criteria. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheets of Amazon.com, Inc. as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017 of Amazon.com, Inc. and our report dated February 1, 2018 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. Basis for OpinionThe Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial ReportingA company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. /s/ Ernst & Young LLPSeattle, Washington February 1, 201874Table of ContentsDisclosure Pursuant to Section 13(r) of the Exchange ActWe determined that, between January 2012 and December 2017, we processed and delivered orders of consumer products for certain individuals and entities located outside Iran covered by the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act ("ITRA"), in addition to those we have previously disclosed, as follows: consumer products valued at approximately $800 for two Iranian embassies located in countries other than Iran; consumer products valued at approximately $38,200 for individuals who may have been acting for 23 Iranian embassies and diplomatic organizations located in countries other than Iran; consumer products valued at approximately $10,300 for 10 individuals and entities who are designated under Executive Order 13224 or Executive Order 13882; consumer products valued at approximately $16,100 for individuals who may have been acting for 13 individuals and entities designated under Executive Order 13224 or Executive Order 13882, three of which are owned or controlled by the Iranian government; and consumer products valued at approximately $6,400 for individuals who may have been acting for seven entities owned or controlled by the Iranian government. The consumer products included books, other media, apparel, home and kitchen, jewelry, office, toys, health and beauty, consumer electronics, lawn and patio, automotive, musical instruments, software, grocery, and pet products. In addition, the information provided pursuant to Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act in Item 5 of Part II of the Company's Quarterly Reports on 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2017, June 30, 2017, and September 30, 2017 are hereby incorporated by reference to such reports. We are unable to accurately calculate the net profit attributable to these transactions. We do not plan to continue selling to these accounts in the future. Our review is ongoing and we are enhancing our processes designed to identify transactions associated with individuals and entities covered by the ITRA.PART III Information regarding our Executive Officers required by Item 10 of Part III is set forth in Item 1 of Part I "Business--Executive Officers of the Registrant." Information required by Item 10 of Part III regarding our Directors and any material changes to the process by which security holders may recommend nominees to the Board of Directors is included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and is incorporated herein by reference. Information relating to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and to compliance with Section 16(a) of the 1934 Act is set forth in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. To the extent permissible under Nasdaq rules, we intend to disclose amendments to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, as well as waivers of the provisions thereof, on our investor relations website under the heading "Corporate Governance" at Information required by Item 11 of Part III is included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. Information required by Item 12 of Part III is included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. Information required by Item 13 of Part III is included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. Information required by Item 14 of Part III is included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2018 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. 75Table of ContentsPART IV (a) List of Documents Filed as a Part of This Report: (1) Index to Consolidated Financial Statements: Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years ended December 31, 2017 Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the three years ended December 31, 2017 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for each of the three years ended December 31, 2017 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2016 and 2017 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for each of the three years ended December 31, 2017 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (2) Index to Financial Statement Schedules: All schedules have been omitted because the required information is included in the consolidated financial statements or the notes thereto, or because it is not required. (3) Index to Exhibits See exhibits listed under Part (b) below. (b) Exhibits: 76Table of Contents__________________+ Executive Compensation Plan or Agreement.None.77Table of ContentsSIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, as of February 1, 2018. Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated as of February 1, 2018. 78