.
45
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (in millions, except per share data)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
46
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (in millions, except per share data)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
47
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (in millions)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
48
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1--DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES Description of Business Amazon.com, a Fortune 500 company, opened its virtual doors on the World Wide Web in July 1995 and
today offers Earth's Biggest Selection. We seek to be Earth's most customer-centric company. Amazon.com serves three primary customer sets: consumer customers, seller customers and developer customers. We serve consumer customers through
our retail websites, which include , , , , , , , , and the Joyo Amazon websites at and
. We serve seller customers by offering programs and services that enable them to sell products on our websites and operate their e-commerce businesses under their own brand name and website address. We serve developers by
offering a suite of web services that provide developer customers with direct access to Amazon.com's robust technology platform in order to enable them to build innovative applications on their own. In addition, we generate revenue through
co-branded credit card agreements and other marketing and promotional services, such as online advertising. We have organized our
operations into two principal segments: North America and International. See "Note 13--Segment Information." Principles
of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and those
entities (relating primarily to the Joyo Amazon websites) in which we have a variable interest. Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Estimates are used for, but not
limited to, valuation of investments, receivables valuation, sales returns, incentive discount offers, inventory valuation, depreciable lives of fixed assets, internally-developed software, valuation of acquired intangibles, income taxes,
stock-based compensation, and contingencies. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. Earnings per Share
Basic earnings per share is calculated using our weighted-average outstanding common shares. Diluted earnings per share is calculated
using our weighted-average outstanding common shares including the dilutive effect of stock awards as determined under the treasury stock method. Our convertible debt instruments are excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share as their effect under the if-converted method is antidilutive. See "Note 4--Long-Term Debt."
49
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
The following table shows the calculation of diluted shares (in millions):
Treasury Stock We account for treasury stock under the cost method and include treasury stock as a
component of stockholders' equity. Business Acquisitions We acquired certain companies during 2007 for an aggregate cash purchase price of $33 million, including cash payments of $24 million and future cash
payments of $9 million. We also made principal payments of $13 million on acquired debt in connection with one of these acquisitions. Additional cash consideration for these acquisitions is contingent upon continued employment. This amount is
expensed as compensation over the employment period and not included in the purchase price. Acquired intangibles totaled $18 million and have estimated useful lives of between two and ten years. The excess of purchase price over the fair value of
the net assets acquired was $21 million and is classified as "Goodwill" on our consolidated balance sheets. We acquired certain
companies during 2006 for an aggregate cash purchase price of $50 million, including cash paid of $30 million and $19 million in 2006 and 2007, and additional cash payments of $1 million due in 2008. Acquired intangibles totaled $17 million and have
estimated useful lives of between one and ten years. The excess of purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired was $33 million and is classified as "Goodwill" on our consolidated balance sheets. In 2005, we acquired certain companies for an aggregate cash purchase price of $29 million. Acquired intangibles totaled $10 million and have estimated
useful lives of between one and three years. The excess of purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired was $19 million and is classified as "Goodwill" on our consolidated balance sheets. The results of operations of each of the businesses acquired in 2007, 2006, and 2005 have been included in our consolidated results from each transaction
closing date forward. The effect of these acquisitions on consolidated net sales and operating income during 2007, 2006, and 2005 was not significant. Cash and Cash Equivalents We classify all highly liquid instruments, including money market funds
that comply with Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act of 1940, with a remaining maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase as cash equivalents.
50
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Inventories Inventories, consisting of products available for sale, are accounted for using the FIFO method, and are valued at the lower of cost or market value. This valuation requires us to make judgments, based on
currently-available information, about the likely method of disposition, such as through sales to individual customers, returns to product vendors, or liquidations, and expected recoverable values of each disposition category. Based on this
evaluation, we adjust the carrying amount of our inventories to lower of cost or market value. We provide fulfillment-related services in
connection with certain of our marketplace sellers and Amazon Enterprise Solutions programs. In those arrangements, as well as all other product sales by other sellers, the marketplace seller maintains ownership of the related products.
Accounts Receivable, Net and Other Current Assets Included in "Accounts receivable, net and other current assets" are customer and vendor receivables, as well as prepaid expenses of $23 million and $17 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
representing advance payments for insurance, licenses, and other miscellaneous expenses. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
We estimate losses on receivables based on known troubled accounts, if any, and historical experience of losses incurred. The allowance
for doubtful accounts receivable was $64 million and $40 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006. Internal-use Software and Website
Development Costs incurred to develop software for internal use are required to be capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful
life of the software in accordance with Statement of Position (SOP) 98-1, Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use. Costs related to design or maintenance of internal-use software are expensed as
incurred. For the years ended 2007, 2006, and 2005, we capitalized $129 million (including $21 million of stock-based compensation), $123 million (including $16 million of stock-based compensation), and $90 million (including $11 million of
stock-based compensation) of costs associated with internal-use software and website development. Amortization of previously capitalized amounts was $116 million, $86 million, and $50 million for 2007, 2006, and 2005. Depreciation of Fixed Assets Fixed
assets include assets such as furniture and fixtures, heavy equipment, technology infrastructure, internal-use software and website development. Depreciation is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets
(generally two years or less for assets such as internal-use software, two or three years for our technology infrastructure, five years for furniture and fixtures, and ten years for heavy equipment). Depreciation expense is generally classified
within the corresponding operating expense categories on our consolidated statements of operations, and certain assets are amortized as "Cost of sales." Leases and Asset Retirement Obligations We account for our lease agreements pursuant to Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 13, Accounting for Leases, which categorizes leases at their inception as either operating or capital leases depending on certain defined criteria. On certain of our lease agreements, we may
receive rent holidays and other incentives. We recognize lease costs on a straight-line basis without regard to deferred payment terms, such as
51
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
rent holidays that defer the commencement date of required payments. Additionally, incentives we receive are treated as a reduction of our costs over the
term of the agreement. Leasehold improvements are capitalized at cost and amortized over the lesser of their expected useful life or the life of the lease, without assuming renewal features, if any, are exercised. We account for build-to-suit lease
arrangements in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 97-10, The Effect of Lessee Involvement in Asset Construction, to the extent we are involved in the construction of structural improvements prior to commencement of a lease.
In accordance with SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, we establish assets and liabilities for the
present value of estimated future costs to return certain of our leased facilities to their original condition. Such assets are depreciated over the lease period into operating expense, and the recorded liabilities are accreted to the future value
of the estimated restoration costs. Goodwill We evaluate goodwill for impairment, at a minimum, on an annual basis and whenever events and changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Impairment of goodwill is tested at the
reporting unit level by comparing the reporting unit's carrying amount, including goodwill, to the fair value of the reporting unit. The fair values of the reporting units are estimated using discounted projected cash flows. If the carrying
amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill is considered impaired and a second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. We conduct our annual impairment test as of October 1 of each year, and have
determined there to be no impairment in 2007 or 2006. There were no events or circumstances from the date of our assessment through December 31, 2007 that would impact this assessment. At December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, approximately 55% and 60% of our acquired goodwill was assigned to our International segment, the
majority of which relates to our acquisition of Joyo.com Limited. Other Assets Included in "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets are amounts primarily related to marketable securities restricted for longer than
one year; intellectual property rights; certain equity investments; and intangible assets, net of amortization. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the cost basis and fair value of marketable securities restricted for longer than one year was $197
million and $86 million, primarily attributable to collateralization of bank guarantees and debt related to our international operations. At December 31, 2007, intellectual property rights were $28 million; at December 31, 2006, these
amounts were not significant. At December 31, 2007, and 2006, equity investments were $17 million and $19 million. Other intangibles,
net, included within "Other assets," were $26 million and $21 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006. Accumulated amortization was $29 million and $16 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, which excludes the accumulated
amortization of fully-amortized intangibles. Amortization expense was $13 million, $10 million, and $5 million in 2007, 2006, and 2005. Amortization expense of intangible assets over the next five years is as follows: $8 million in 2008; $4 million
in 2009; $3 million in 2010; $2 million in 2011; $2 million in 2012. The weighted-average amortization period is five years based on useful life assumptions between one and ten years. Investments The initial carrying
cost of our investments is the price we paid. Investments are accounted for using the equity method of accounting if the investment gives us the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over an investee. We classify our
investments in equity-method investees on our consolidated balance
52
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
sheets as "Other assets" and our share of the investees' earnings or losses as "Remeasurements and other" on our consolidated
statements of operations. Losses from equity-method investees were not significant for any period presented. All other equity investments
consist of investments for which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence. Under the cost method of accounting, investments in private companies are carried at cost and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary declines in fair
value, distributions of earnings, and additional investments. For public companies that have readily determinable fair values, we classify our equity investments as available-for-sale and, accordingly, record these investments at their fair values
with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in "Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)," a separate component of stockholders' equity. We generally invest our excess cash in investment grade short to intermediate term fixed income securities and AAA-rated money market mutual funds. Such investments are included in "Cash and cash
equivalents," or "Marketable securities" on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in "Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)." The
weighted average method is used to determine the cost of Euro-denominated securities sold, and the specific identification method is used to determine the cost of all other securities. We periodically evaluate whether declines in fair values of our investments below their cost are other-than-temporary. This evaluation consists of
several qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the severity and duration of the unrealized loss as well as our ability and intent to hold the investment until a forecasted recovery occurs. Factors considered include quoted market prices, if
available; recent financial results and operating trends; other publicly available information; implied values from any recent purchase/sales offers of investee securities; or other conditions that may affect the value of our investments. At
December 31, 2007, gross unrealized losses on our marketable securities were $3 million and were determined to be temporary based on our assessment of the qualitative and quantitative factors discussed above. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets,
other than goodwill, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant
decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, or any other significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not
be recoverable. For long-lived assets used in operations, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset's carrying amount is not
recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value. Long-lived assets are considered held for sale when certain criteria are met, including: management has committed to a plan to sell the asset, the asset
is available for sale in its immediate condition, and the sale is probable within one year of the reporting date. Assets held for sale are reported at the lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell. Assets held for sale were not significant at
December 31, 2007 or 2006. Accrued Expenses and Other Included in "Accrued expenses and other" at December 31, 2007 and 2006 were liabilities of $240 million and $183 million for unredeemed
gift certificates. We recognize revenue from a gift certificate when a customer
53
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
redeems it. If a gift certificate is not redeemed, we recognize revenue when it expires or, for a certificate without an expiration date, when the likelihood
of its redemption becomes remote, generally two years from date of issuance. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue is recorded when payments are received in advance of performing our service obligations and is recognized over the service period.
Current unearned revenue is included in "Accrued expenses and other" and non-current unearned revenue is included in "Other long-term liabilities" on our consolidated balance sheets. Current unearned revenue was $91 million and
$78 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006. Income Taxes Income tax expense includes U.S. and international income taxes. We do not provide for U.S. taxes on our undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries,
totaling $126 million at December 31, 2007, since we intend to invest such undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the U.S. If such amounts were repatriated, determination of the amount of U.S. income taxes that would be incurred is not
practicable due to the complexities associated with this calculation. Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases and are stated at enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when taxes are actually paid or recovered. At December 31, 2007, our deferred tax assets, net of
deferred tax liabilities and valuation allowance, were $385 million, which includes $148 million relating to net operating loss carryforwards ("NOLs") that were primarily attributed to stock-based compensation. The majority of our NOLs
begin to expire in 2019 and thereafter. SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, requires that deferred tax assets be
evaluated for future realization and reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent we believe a portion will not be realized. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our
recent cumulative earnings experience and expectations of future taxable income by taxing jurisdiction, the carry-forward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, and other relevant factors. In accordance with SFAS No. 109, we
allocate our valuation allowance to current and long-term deferred tax assets on a pro-rata basis. Effective January 1, 2007, we
adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation (FIN) No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes--an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109. FIN 48 contains a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax
positions (tax contingencies) accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 109. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the
position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate
settlement. We consider many factors when evaluating and estimating our tax positions and tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately forecast actual outcomes. Adopting FIN 48 increased long-term assets by $10 million, long-term liabilities by $21 million, accumulated deficit by $14 million and additional
paid-in capital by $2 million. These amounts include the associated federal benefit related to unrecognized tax benefits, and interest and penalties which collectively are not material. As of January 1, 2007, we had $110 million of tax
contingencies.
54
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Revenue We recognize revenue from product sales or services rendered when the following four revenue recognition criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been
rendered, the selling price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. Additionally, revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables are divided into separate units of accounting if the deliverables in the arrangement meet
the following criteria: the delivered item has value to the customer on a standalone basis; there is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of undelivered items; and delivery of any undelivered item is probable. We evaluate the criteria outlined in EITF Issue No. 99-19, Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal Versus Net as an Agent, in determining
whether it is appropriate to record the gross amount of product sales and related costs or the net amount earned as commissions. Generally, when we are primarily obligated in a transaction, are subject to inventory risk, have latitude in
establishing prices and selecting suppliers, or have several but not all of these indicators, revenue is recorded gross. If we are not primarily obligated and amounts earned are determined using a fixed percentage, a fixed-payment schedule, or a
combination of the two, we generally record the net amounts as commissions earned. Product sales and shipping revenues, net of promotional
discounts, rebates, and return allowances, are recorded when the products are shipped and title passes to customers. Retail sales to customers are made pursuant to a sales contract that provides for transfer of both title and risk of loss upon our
delivery to the carrier. Return allowances, which reduce product revenue, are estimated using historical experience. Revenue from product sales and services rendered is recorded net of sales taxes. Amounts received in advance for subscription
services, including amounts received for Amazon Prime and other membership programs, are deferred and recognized as revenue over the subscription term. For our products with multiple elements, where a standalone value for each element cannot be
established, we recognize the revenue and related cost over the estimated economic life of the product. We periodically provide incentive
offers to our customers to encourage purchases. Such offers include current discount offers, such as percentage discounts off current purchases, inducement offers, such as offers for future discounts subject to a minimum current purchase, and other
similar offers. Current discount offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to the purchase price of the related transaction, while inducement offers, when accepted by our customers, are treated as a reduction to purchase
price based on estimated future redemption rates. Redemption rates are estimated using our historical experience for similar inducement offers. Current discount offers and inducement offers are presented as a net amount in "Net sales."
Commissions and per-unit fees received from sellers and similar amounts earned through Amazon Enterprise Solutions are recognized when the
item is sold by seller and our collectibility is reasonably assured. We record an allowance for estimated refunds on such commissions using historical experience. Shipping Activities Outbound shipping charges to customers are included in "Net sales" and
were $740 million, $567 million, and $511 million for 2007, 2006, and 2005. Outbound shipping-related costs are included in "Cost of sales" and totaled $1.2 billion, $884 million, and $750 million for 2007, 2006, and 2005. The net cost to
us of shipping activities was $434 million, $317 million, and $239 million for 2007, 2006 and 2005. Cost of Sales Cost of sales consists of the purchase price of consumer products and content sold by us, inbound and outbound shipping charges, packaging supplies, and
costs incurred in operating and staffing our fulfillment and
55
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
customer service centers on behalf of other businesses. Shipping charges to receive products from our suppliers are included in our inventory, and recognized
as "Cost of sales" upon sale of products to our customers. Payment processing and related transaction costs, including those associated with seller transactions, are classified in "Fulfillment" on our consolidated statements of
operations. Vendor Agreements We have agreements to receive cash consideration from certain of our vendors, including rebates and cooperative marketing reimbursements. We generally presume amounts received from our vendors are a reduction of the prices we pay for their
products and, therefore, we reflect such amounts as either a reduction of "Cost of sales" on our consolidated statements of operations, or, if the product inventory is still on hand, as a reduction of the carrying value of inventory.
Vendor rebates are typically dependent upon reaching minimum purchase thresholds. We evaluate the likelihood of reaching purchase thresholds using past experience and current year forecasts. When volume rebates can be reasonably estimated, we record
a portion of the rebate as we make progress towards the purchase threshold. When we receive direct reimbursements for costs incurred by us
in advertising the vendor's product or service, the amount we receive is recorded as an offset to "Marketing" on our consolidated statements of operations. Fulfillment Fulfillment costs represent those costs incurred in operating and staffing our
fulfillment and customer service centers, including costs attributable to buying, receiving, inspecting, and warehousing inventories; picking, packaging, and preparing customer orders for shipment; payment processing and related transaction costs,
including costs associated with our guarantee for certain seller transactions; and responding to inquiries from customers. Fulfillment costs also include amounts paid to third parties that assist us in fulfillment and customer service operations.
Certain of our fulfillment-related costs that are incurred on behalf of other businesses, such as Target Corporation, are classified as cost of sales rather than fulfillment. Marketing Marketing costs consist
primarily of online advertising, including through our Associates program, sponsored search, portal advertising, e-mail campaigns, and other initiatives. We pay commissions to participants in our Associates program when their customer referrals
result in product sales and classify such costs as "Marketing" on our consolidated statements of operations. We also participate
in cooperative advertising arrangements with certain of our vendors, and other third parties. To the extent co-operative marketing reimbursements decline in future periods, we may incur additional expenses to continue certain promotions or elect to
reduce or discontinue them. Marketing expenses also consist of public relations expenditures; payroll and related expenses for personnel
engaged in marketing, business development, and selling activities; and to a lesser extent, traditional advertising such as newspaper inserts. Advertising and other promotional costs, which consist primarily of online advertising, are expensed as incurred, and were $306 million, $226 million, and $168 million in 2007, 2006, and 2005. Prepaid advertising costs were not significant
at December 31, 2007 and 2006.
56
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Technology and Content Technology and content expenses consist principally of payroll and related expenses for employees involved in, application development, category
expansion, editorial content, buying, merchandising selection, and systems support, as well as costs associated with the compute, storage and telecommunications infrastructure. Technology and content costs are expensed as incurred, except for certain costs relating to the development of internal-use software and website
development, including software used to upgrade and enhance our websites and processes supporting our business, which are capitalized and amortized over two years. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of payroll and related
expenses for employees involved in general corporate functions, including accounting, finance, tax, legal, and human relations, among others; costs associated with use by these functions of facilities and equipment, such as depreciation expense and
rent; professional fees and litigation costs; and other general corporate costs. Stock-Based Compensation As of January 1, 2005, we adopted SFAS No. 123(R), which requires measurement of compensation cost for all stock-based awards at fair value on
date of grant and recognition of compensation over the service period for awards expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common
stock. Such value is recognized as expense over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures, using the accelerated method. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated
estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including types of awards, employee class, and
historical experience. Actual results and future estimates may differ substantially from our current estimates. Foreign Currency
We have the following internationally-focused websites: , , , ,
, and services for the Joyo Amazon websites at and . Net sales generated from internationally-focused websites, as well as most of the related expenses directly incurred from those operations,
are denominated in the functional currencies of the resident countries. Additionally, the functional currency of our subsidiaries that either operate or support these international websites is the same as the local currency of the United Kingdom,
Germany, France, Japan, Canada, and China. Assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are translated into U.S. Dollars at period-end exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated at average rates prevailing throughout the period.
Translation adjustments are included in "Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)," a separate component of stockholders' equity, and in the "Foreign currency effect on cash and cash equivalents," on our consolidated
statements of cash flows. Transaction gains and losses arising from transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity involved are included in "Other income (expense), net" on our consolidated
statements of operations. See "Note 10--Other Income (Expense), Net." Gains and losses arising from intercompany foreign
currency transactions are included in net income. In connection with the remeasurement of intercompany balances, we recorded gains of $32 million and $50 million in 2007 and 2006, and a loss of $47 million in 2005. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In
September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted
57
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after
November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. We do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 157 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. The FASB may delay a portion of this standard.
In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. SFAS
No. 159 permits companies to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. SFAS No. 159 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. We do not
expect the adoption of SFAS No. 159 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In December 2007, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 141 (R), Business Combinations, and SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS No. 141 (R) requires an acquirer to measure the identifiable assets acquired, the
liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at their fair values on the acquisition date, with goodwill being the excess value over the net identifiable assets acquired. SFAS No. 160 clarifies that a noncontrolling
interest in a subsidiary should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements. The calculation of earnings per share will continue to be based on income amounts attributable to the parent. SFAS No. 141 (R) and SFAS
No. 160 are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Early adoption is prohibited. We have not yet determined the effect on our consolidated financial statements, if any, upon adoption
of SFAS No. 141 (R) or SFAS No. 160. Note 2--CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES We measure our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at fair value based on the quoted prices in active markets. The following tables
summarize, by major security type, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities (in millions):
58
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
The following table summarizes contractual maturities of our cash equivalent and marketable fixed-income securities as of December 31, 2007 (in
millions):
Gross gains of $2 million, $18 million, and $7 million and gross losses of $3 million, $16 million
and $12 million were realized on sales of available-for-sale marketable securities, including Euro-denominated securities, for 2007, 2006, and 2005. We are required to pledge a portion of our cash equivalents or marketable securities as collateral for standby letters of credit that guarantee certain of our contractual obligations, a line of credit, and real estate
lease agreements. See "Note 6--Commitments and Contingencies."
59
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Note 3--FIXED ASSETS Fixed assets, at cost, consisted of the following (in millions):
Depreciation expense on fixed assets was $258 million, $200 million, and $113 million, which includes amortization of fixed assets acquired under capital
lease obligations of $40 million, $26 million and $4 million for 2007, 2006, and 2005. Gross assets remaining under capital leases were $150 million and $77 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006. Accumulated depreciation associated with capital
leases was $64 million and $28 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006. Note 4--LONG-TERM DEBT Our long-term debt is summarized as follows:
4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes In February 1999, we completed an offering of $1.25 billion of 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes. The 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes are
convertible into our common stock at the holders' option at a
60
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
conversion price of $78.0275 per share. Total common stock issuable, as of December 31, 2007, upon conversion of our outstanding 4.75% Convertible
Subordinated Notes was 11.5 million shares, which is excluded from our calculation of earnings per share as its effect is currently anti-dilutive. Interest on the 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears in
February and August of each year. The 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes are unsecured and are subordinated to any existing and future senior indebtedness as defined in the indenture governing the 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes. We have the
right to redeem the 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes, in whole or in part, by paying the principal plus a redemption premium, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. The redemption premium was 0.950% of the principal at December 31, 2007, and
decreased to 0.475% on February 1, 2008 and will decrease to zero at maturity in February 2009. Upon the occurrence of a
"fundamental change" prior to the maturity of the 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes, each holder thereof has the right to require us to redeem all or any part of such holder's 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes at a price equal
to 100% of the principal amount of the notes being redeemed, together with accrued interest. As defined in the indenture, a "fundamental change" is the occurrence of certain types of transactions in which our stockholders do not receive
publicly-traded securities. The indenture governing the 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes contains certain affirmative covenants for
us, including making principal and interest payments when due, maintaining our corporate existence and properties, and paying taxes and other claims in a timely manner. We were in compliance with these covenants through December 31, 2007.
Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value of our 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 was $1.1
billion and $883 million. 6.875% PEACS In February 2000, we completed an offering of EUR690 million of our 6.875% PEACS. The 6.875% PEACS are convertible, at the holder's option, into our common stock at a conversion price of
EUR84.883 per share ($123.84, based on the exchange rates as of December 31, 2007). Total common stock issuable, as of December 31, 2007, upon conversion of our outstanding 6.875% PEACS was 2.8 million shares, which is
excluded from our calculation of earnings per share as its effect is currently anti-dilutive. The U.S. Dollar equivalent principal, interest, and conversion price fluctuate based on the Euro/U.S. Dollar exchange ratio. Interest on the 6.875%
PEACS is payable annually in arrears in February of each year. The 6.875% PEACS are unsecured and are subordinated to any existing and future senior indebtedness. The 6.875% PEACS rank equally with our outstanding 4.75% Convertible Subordinated
Notes. We have the right to redeem the 6.875% PEACS, in whole or in part, by paying the principal, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. No premium payment is required for early redemption. Upon the occurrence of a "fundamental change" prior to the maturity of the 6.875% PEACS, each holder thereof has the right to require us to
redeem all or any part of such holder's 6.875% PEACS at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes being redeemed, together with accrued interest. As defined in the indenture, a "fundamental change" is the occurrence
of certain types of transactions in which our stockholders do not receive publicly-traded securities. The indenture governing the 6.875%
PEACS contains certain affirmative covenants for us, including making principal and interest payments when due, maintaining our corporate existence and properties, and paying taxes and other claims in a timely manner. We were in compliance with
these covenants through December 31, 2007.
61
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
In 2006 and 2005, we redeemed principal amounts of EUR250 million and EUR200 million
($300 million and $265 million based on the Euro to U.S. Dollar exchange rate on the date of redemption) of our outstanding 6.875% PEACS. As a result of these redemptions, in 2006 and 2005 we recorded a charge classified in "Remeasurements
and other," of approximately $6 million and $4 million related to the redemption, consisting of $3 million and $2 million in unamortized deferred issuance charges and $3 million and $2 million relating to unrealized losses on our
terminated currency swap that previously hedged a portion of our 6.875% PEACS. Based upon quoted market prices, the fair value of the
6.875% PEACS was $358 million and $320 million (outstanding principal of EUR240 million) as of December 31, 2007 and 2006. Debt Repurchase Authorization In February 2008 our Board of Directors authorized a debt repurchase program, replacing our
previous debt repurchase authorization in its entirety, pursuant to which we may from time to time repurchase (through open market repurchases or private transactions), redeem, or otherwise retire up to an aggregate of all of our outstanding 4.75%
Convertible Subordinated Notes and 6.875% PEACS. The outstanding principal of our 4.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes as of this authorization was $899 million, and the outstanding principal amount of our 6.875% PEACS was EUR240 million.
Note 5--OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES Our other long-term liabilities are summarized as follows:
Tax Contingencies As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, we have provided tax reserves for tax contingencies of approximately $98 million and $75 million for U.S. and
foreign income taxes, which primarily relate to restructuring of certain foreign operations and intercompany pricing between our subsidiaries. See "Note 12--Income Taxes" for discussion of tax contingencies. Capital Leases Certain of our
equipment fixed assets, primarily related to technology, have been acquired under capital leases. Long-term capital lease obligations were as follows:
62
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Construction Liability Related to Seattle Campus We capitalize construction in progress and record a corresponding long-term liability for certain lease agreements related to our Seattle, Washington
corporate office space subject to leases scheduled to begin in 2010 and 2011. In accordance with EITF No. 97-10, for build-to-suit
lease arrangements where we are involved in the construction of structural improvements prior to the commencement of the lease or take some level of construction risk, we are considered the owner of the assets during the construction period under
generally accepted accounting principles. Accordingly, as the landlord incurs the construction project costs, the assets and corresponding financial obligation are recorded in "Fixed assets, net" and "Other long-term liabilities"
on our consolidated balance sheet. Once the construction is completed, if the lease meets certain "sale-leaseback" criteria in accordance with SFAS No. 98, Accounting for Leases, we will remove the asset and related financial
obligation from the balance sheet and treat the building lease as an operating lease. If upon completion of construction, the project does not meet the "sale-leaseback" criteria, the leased property will be treated as a capital lease for
financial reporting purposes. The remainder of our other long-term liabilities primarily include deferred tax liabilities, unearned
revenue, asset retirement obligations, and deferred rental liabilities. Note 6--COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Commitments We lease office and
fulfillment center facilities and fixed assets under non-cancelable operating and capital leases. Rental expense under operating lease agreements was $141 million, $132 million, and $84 million for 2007, 2006, and 2005. In December 2007, we entered into a series of leases and other agreements for the lease of corporate office space to be developed in Seattle, Washington
with initial terms of up to 16 years commencing on completion of development in 2010 and 2011 and options to extend for two five year periods. Under the agreements we will occupy approximately 800,000 square feet of office space. We also have the
right to occupy up to an additional approximately 800,000 square feet subject to a termination fee, estimated to be up to approximately $40 million, if the Company elects not to occupy the additional space. In addition, we have options to lease up
to an additional approximately 500,000 square feet at rates based on fair market values at the time the options are exercised, subject to certain conditions. In addition, if interest rates exceed a certain threshold, we have the option to provide
financing for some of the buildings. The following summarizes our principal contractual commitments, excluding open orders for inventory
purchases that support normal operations, as of December 31, 2007:
63
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
In January 2008 we closed or entered into agreements, subject to regulatory approvals and other conditions, to acquire or invest in certain companies.
These acquisitions and investments result in aggregate cash payments of approximately $400 million, net of cash acquired. Pledged
Securities We are required to pledge or otherwise restrict a portion of our cash and marketable securities as collateral for standby
letters of credit, guarantees, debt, and real estate leases. We classify cash and marketable securities with use restrictions of twelve months or longer as non-current "Other assets" on our consolidated balance sheets. The balance of
pledged securities at December 31, 2007 consisted of $14 million in "Cash and cash equivalents" and "Marketable securities," and $197 million in "Other assets." The amount required to be pledged for certain real
estate lease agreements changes over the life of our leases based on our credit rating and changes in our market capitalization (common shares outstanding multiplied by the closing price of our common stock). Information about collateral required to
be pledged under these agreements is as follows:
64
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Legal Proceedings The Company is involved from time to time in claims, proceedings and litigation, including the following: In October 2002, Gary Gerlinger, individually and on behalf of all other similarly situated consumers in the United States who, during the period from
August 1, 2001 to the present, purchased books online from either Amazon.com or Borders.com, instituted an action against us and Borders in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California. The complaint alleges that the
agreement pursuant to which an affiliate of Amazon.com operates Borders.com as a co-branded site violates federal anti-trust laws, California statutory law, and the common law of unjust enrichment. The complaint seeks injunctive relief, damages,
including treble damages or statutory damages where applicable, attorneys' fees, costs, and disbursements, disgorgement of all sums obtained by allegedly wrongful acts, interest, and declaratory relief. In November 2005, the Court dismissed all
of the plaintiff's claims with prejudice. The plaintiff is appealing that dismissal. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing in this complaint, and we will continue to defend ourselves vigorously in this matter. Beginning in March 2003, we were served with complaints filed in several different states, including Illinois, by a private litigant, Beeler,
Schad & Diamond, P.C., purportedly on behalf of the state governments under various state False Claims Acts. The complaints allege that we (along with other companies with which we have commercial agreements) wrongfully failed to collect
and remit sales and use taxes for sales of personal property to customers in those states and knowingly created records and statements falsely stating we were not required to collect or remit such taxes. In December 2006, we learned that one
additional complaint was filed in the state of Illinois by a different private litigant, Matthew T. Hurst, alleging similar violations of the Illinois state law. All of the complaints seek injunctive relief, unpaid taxes, interest, attorneys'
fees, civil penalties of up to $10,000 per violation, and treble or punitive damages under the various state False Claims Acts. It is possible that we have been or will be named in similar cases in other states as well. We dispute the allegations of
wrongdoing in these complaints and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in these matters. In May 2004, Toysrus.com LLC filed a complaint
against us for breach of contract in the Superior Court of New Jersey. The complaint alleged that we breached our commercial agreement with Toysrus.com LLC by selling, and by permitting other third parties to sell, products that Toysrus.com LLC
alleged it has an exclusive right to sell on our website. We disputed the allegations in the complaint and brought counterclaims alleging breach of contract and seeking damages and declaratory relief. The trial of both parties' claims concluded
in November 2005. In March 2006, the Court entered a judgment in favor of Toysrus.com LLC, terminating the contract but declining to award damages to either party. We are pursuing an appeal of the lower court's rulings terminating the contract,
declining to award us damages, and denying our motion to compel Toysrus.com to pay certain fees incurred during the wind-down period. In
December 2005, Registrar Systems LLC filed a complaint against us and Target Corporation for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Colorado. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including the
method by which Amazon.com enables customers to use Amazon.com account information on websites that Amazon.com operates for third parties, such as Target.com, infringes two patents obtained by Registrar Systems purporting to cover methods and
apparatuses for a "World Wide Web Registration Information Processing System" (U.S. Patent Nos. 5,790,785 and 6,823,327) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages in an amount no less than a reasonable royalty, prejudgment
interest, costs, and attorneys' fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing in this complaint and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In September 2006, the Court entered an order staying the lawsuit pending the outcome of
the Patent and Trademark Office's re-examination of the patents in suit. In August 2006, Cordance Corporation filed a complaint
against us for patent infringement in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware. The complaint alleges that our website technology, including
65
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
our 1-Click ordering system, infringes a patent obtained by Cordance purporting to cover an "Object-Based Online Transaction Infrastructure" (U.S.
Patent No. 6,757,710) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages in an amount no less than a reasonable royalty, treble damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys' fees. In response, we asserted
a declaratory judgment counterclaim in the same action alleging that a service that Cordance has advertised its intent to launch infringes a patent owned by us entitled "Networked Personal Contact Manager" (U.S. Patent No. 6,269,369).
We dispute Cordance's allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in this matter. In April 2007, SBJ Holdings
1, LLC filed a complaint against us in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges that our website technology infringes a patent obtained by SBJ Holdings 1 purporting to cover a "Method,
Memory, Product, and Code for Displaying Pre-Customized Content Associated with Visitor Data" (U.S. Patent No. 6,330,592) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, treble damages for alleged willful infringement, prejudgment and
post-judgment interest, costs and attorneys' fees. We dispute the allegations of wrongdoing and intend to vigorously defend ourselves in the matter. In August 2007, Polaris IP, LLC filed a complaint against us and others in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The complaint alleges that our website technology infringes a patent
obtained by Polaris purporting to cover an "Automatic Message Interpretation and Routing System" (U.S. Patent No. 6,411,947) and seeks injunctive relief, monetary damages, prejudgment and post-judgment interest, costs and
attorneys' fees. In November 2007, we entered into a settlement of the litigation that included, among other things, a non-exclusive license to the patent in suit. Depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could materially affect our business, results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. See also "Note 12--Income Taxes." Inventory Suppliers During 2007, no vendor accounted for 10% or more of our inventory purchases. We do not have long-term
contracts or arrangements with most of our vendors to guarantee the availability of merchandise, particular payment terms, or the extension of credit limits. Note 7--STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY Preferred Stock We have authorized 500 million shares of $0.01 par value Preferred Stock. No preferred stock was outstanding for any period presented. Stock Repurchase Activity In August
2006, our Board of Directors authorized a 24-month program to repurchase up to $500 million of our common stock, pursuant to which we repurchased $252 million and $248 million of our common stock in 2006 and 2007, respectively. In April 2007, our
Board authorized a new 24-month program to repurchase up to $500 million of our common stock, which was replaced in February 2008 by a 24-month program to repurchase up to $1 billion of our common stock.
66
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Stock Award Plans Employees vest in restricted stock unit awards and stock options over the corresponding service term, generally between two and five years. Outstanding
stock options generally have a term of 10 years from the date of grant. Stock options outstanding have a weighted average exercise life of 3.5 years, with a weighted average exercise price of $17.46. Stock Award Activity We granted
stock awards, which consist primarily of restricted stock units, representing 7.6 million, 9.1 million, and 6.0 million shares of common stock during 2007, 2006, and 2005 with a per share weighted average fair value of $47.04, $36.48,
and $36.50. Common shares underlying outstanding stock awards were as follows:
Common shares outstanding (which includes restricted stock), plus shares underlying outstanding
stock options and restricted stock units totaled 435 million, 436 million, and 438 million at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. These totals include all stock-based awards outstanding, without regard for estimated forfeitures,
consisting of vested and unvested awards and in-the-money and out-of-the-money stock options. Common shares outstanding decreased in both 2007 and 2006 due to repurchases of common stock, offset by exercises of stock options, vesting of restricted
stock units, and matching contributions under our 401(k) savings plan. The following summarizes our restricted stock unit activity (in
millions):
67
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Scheduled vesting for outstanding restricted stock units at December 31, 2007 is as follows (in
millions):
As matching contributions under our 401(k) savings plan, we granted 0.09 million and
0.15 million shares of common stock for years ended 2007 and 2006. Shares granted as matching contributions under our 401(k) plan are included in outstanding common stock when issued. As of December 31, 2007, there was $252 million of net unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock-based compensation arrangements.
This compensation is recognized on an accelerated basis resulting in approximately half of the compensation expected to be expensed in the next twelve months, and has a weighted average recognition period of 1.2 years. During 2007 and 2006, the fair value of restricted stock units vested was $224 million and $68 million. Common Stock Available for Future Issuance At December 31, 2007, common stock available for future issuance is as follows (in millions):
Note 8--OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) The changes in the components of other comprehensive income (loss) were as follows:
68
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Accumulated balances within other comprehensive income (loss) were as follows:
Note 9--OTHER OPERATING EXPENSE, NET Other operating expense, net, was $9 million and $10 million in 2007 and 2006, primarily attributable to amortization of other intangibles. Other
operating expense, net, was $47 million in 2005, primarily attributable to our settlement of a patent lawsuit for $40 million, as well as amortization of other intangibles of $5 million. Note 10--OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET Other income (expense), net, was $(1) million, $(4)
million, and $2 million, in 2007, 2006 and 2005, and consisted primarily of gains and losses on sales of marketable securities, foreign-currency transaction gains and losses, and other miscellaneous losses. Foreign-currency transaction gains and losses primarily relate to the interest payable on our 6.875% PEACS, as well as foreign-currency gains and losses
on cross-currency investments. Since interest payments on our 6.875% PEACS are settled in Euros, the balance of interest payable is subject to gains or losses resulting from changes in exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and Euro between
reporting dates and payment. Note 11--REMEASUREMENTS AND OTHER Remeasurements and other consisted of the following:
Note 12--INCOME TAXES In 2007, 2006 and 2005 we recorded net tax provisions of $184 million, $187 million, and $95 million. A majority of this provision is non-cash. We have current tax benefits and net operating losses relating to excess
stock-based compensation that are being utilized to reduce our taxable income. As such, cash taxes paid were $24 million, $15 million, and $12 million for 2007, 2006, and 2005.
69
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
The components of the provision for income taxes, net were as follows:
U.S. and international components of income before income taxes were as follows:
The items accounting for differences between income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate
and the provision recorded for income taxes are as follows:
The effective tax rate in 2007 was lower than the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to
earnings of our subsidiaries outside of the U.S. in jurisdictions where our effective tax rate is lower than in the U.S. The effective tax rate in 2006 was higher than the 35% U.S. federal statutory rate resulting from establishment of our European
headquarters in Luxembourg. Associated with the establishment of our European headquarters, we transferred certain of our operating assets in 2005 and 2006 from the U.S. to international locations. These transfers resulted in taxable income and
exposure to additional taxable income assertions by taxing jurisdictions. Included in the 2005 provision and reducing the impact of the
international restructure was a tax benefit of $90 million, resulting from certain of our deferred tax assets becoming more likely than not realizable. This tax benefit represented $0.22 and $0.21 of basic and diluted earnings per share.
70
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
The significant components of deferred income tax expense attributable to income from operations for
2007, 2006, and 2005 were as follows:
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities were as follows:
We have not fully utilized NOLs which were generated in the years 1996 through 2003, so that the statute of limitations for
these years remains open for purposes of adjusting the amounts of the losses carried forward from those years. The majority of our NOLs begin to expire in 2019 and thereafter.
71
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Tax Contingencies We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and
determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We establish reserves for tax-related uncertainties based on
estimates of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. These reserves are established when we believe that certain positions might be challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. We adjust
these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the outcome of tax audit. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate. Accruals for tax
contingencies are provided for in accordance with the requirements of FIN 48. The reconciliation of our tax contingencies is as follows
(in millions):
As of
December 31, 2007, changes to our tax contingencies that are reasonably possible in the next 12 months are not material. Our policy is to include interest and penalties related to our tax contingencies in income tax expense. As of
December 31, 2007, we had accrued interest and penalties related to tax contingencies of $9 million, net of federal income tax benefits, on our balance sheet. Interest and penalties recognized for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $1
million, net of federal income tax benefits. We are under examination, or may be subject to examination, by the Internal Revenue Service
("IRS") for calendar years 2004 through 2006. Additionally, any net operating losses that were generated in prior years and utilized in these years may also be subject to examination by the IRS. We are under examination, or may be subject
to examination, in the following major jurisdictions for the years specified: Kentucky for 2003 through 2006, France for 2005 through 2006, Germany for 2004 through 2006, Luxembourg for 2003 through 2006, and the United Kingdom for 1999 through
2006. In addition, in February 2007, Japanese tax authorities assessed income tax, including penalties and interest, of approximately $93 million against one of our U.S. subsidiaries for the years 2003 through 2005. We believe that these claims are
without merit and are disputing the assessment. Further proceedings on the assessment will be stayed during negotiations between U.S. and Japanese authorities over the double taxation issues the assessment raises, and we have provided bank
guarantees to suspend enforcement of the assessment. We also may be subject to income tax examination by Japanese tax authorities for 2006. Note
13--SEGMENT INFORMATION We have organized our operations into two principal segments: North America and International. We present
our segment information along the same lines that our chief executive reviews our operating results in assessing performance and allocating resources.
72
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
We allocate to segment results the operating expenses "Fulfillment," "Marketing,"
"Technology and content," and "General and administrative," but exclude from our allocations the portions of these expense lines attributable to stock-based compensation. Additionally, we do not allocate the line item "Other
operating expense, net" to our segment operating results. A significant majority of our costs for "Technology and content" are incurred in the United States and most of these costs are allocated to our North America segment. There are
no internal revenue transactions between our reporting segments. North America The North America segment consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through North
America-focused websites such as , , , and from our Amazon Prime membership program; and from non-retail activities such as North America-focused Amazon Enterprise Solutions,
Amazon Web Services and marketing, and promotional services. This segment includes export sales from and . International The International segment consists of amounts earned from retail sales of consumer
products (including from sellers) and subscriptions through internationally focused websites such as , , , , and our Joyo Amazon websites at and
from our Amazon Prime membership program; and from non-retail activities such as internationally focused Amazon Enterprise Solutions, Amazon Web Services and marketing and promotional services. This segment includes export
sales from these internationally based sites (including export sales from these sites to customers in the U.S. and Canada), but excludes export sales from and .
73
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Information on reportable segments and reconciliation to consolidated net income was as follows:
Net sales shipped to customers outside of the U.S. represented approximately half of net sales for
2007, 2006, and 2005. Net sales from , , and each represented 10% or more of consolidated net sales in 2007, 2006 and 2005. Net fixed assets held in locations outside the U.S. were
$139 million, $108 million, and $68 million at December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005. Total assets, by segment, reconciled to
consolidated amounts were (in millions):
74
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
Depreciation expense, by segment, was as follows (in millions):
Note 14--FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The carrying amount and estimated fair values of our financial instruments were as follows (in millions):
Note 15--QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED) The
following tables contain selected unaudited statement of operations information for each quarter of 2007 and 2006. The following information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the information for the
periods presented. The operating results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for any future period. Our business is affected by seasonality, which historically has resulted in higher sales volume during our fourth quarter,
which ends December 31. Unaudited quarterly results were as follows (in millions, except per share data):
75
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
76
Table of Contents
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants On Accounting and Financial Disclosure None.
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Evaluation of Disclosure
Controls and Procedures We carried out an evaluation required by the 1934 Act, under the supervision and with the participation of our
principal executive officer and principal financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the 1934 Act, as of December 31, 2007. Based on this
evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that, as of December 31, 2007, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed
by us in the reports that we file or submit under the 1934 Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and to provide reasonable assurance that such information is
accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the 1934
Act. Management has assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007 based on criteria established in Internal Control--Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. As a result of this assessment, management concluded that, as of December 31, 2007, our internal control over financial reporting was effective in providing reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting There were no changes in our internal control
over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2007 that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Limitations on Controls Management
does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all error and fraud. Any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, is based upon certain assumptions
and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. Further, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and
instances of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected.
77
Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Stockholders Amazon.com, Inc. We have audited Amazon.com, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in Internal
Control--Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Amazon.com, Inc.'s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial
reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. In our opinion, Amazon.com, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007,
based on the COSO criteria. We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Amazon.com, Inc. as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2007 of Amazon.com, Inc. and our report dated February 8, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. /S/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP Seattle, Washington
February 8, 2008
78
Table of Contents
Item 9B. Other Information None. PART III
Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Information regarding our Executive Officers required by Item 10 of Part III is set forth in Item 1 of Part I "Business--Executive Officers and Directors." Information required by Item 10 of Part III regarding
our Directors and any material changes to the process by which security holders may recommend nominees to the Board of Directors is included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and is incorporated herein by
reference. Information relating to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and to compliance with Section 16(a) of the 1934 Act is set forth in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein
by reference. To the extent permissible under Nasdaq rules, we intend to disclose amendments to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, as well as waivers of the provisions thereof, on our investor relations website under the heading
"Corporate Governance" at website.
Item 11. Executive Compensation Information required by
Item 11 of Part III is included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters Information required by Item 12 of Part III is included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is
incorporated herein by reference.
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Information required by Item 13 of Part III is included in our Proxy Statement relating to our 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services Information
required by Item 14 of Part III is included in our Proxy Statement relating our 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. PART IV
Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules (a) List
of Documents Filed as a Part of This Report: (1) Index to Consolidated Financial Statements: Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years ended December 31, 2007 Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the three years ended December 31, 2007
79
Table of Contents
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for each of the three years ended December 31, 2007 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (2) Index to
Financial Statement Schedules: Schedule II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts All other schedules have been omitted because the required information is included in the consolidated financial statements or the notes
thereto, or is not applicable or required. (3) Index to Exhibits
80
Table of Contents
81
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, as of February 8, 2008.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated as of February 8, 2008.
82
Table of Contents
AMAZON.COM, INC. SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS Accounts receivable and other current assets--Reserves
Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX
Table of Contents
2